1 
  
Regulations for the B.Tech.  in Computer Science and Engineering  
(CSE) Program  
1. Preamble  
 
IIIT-Delhi aims to encourage research and innovation in Inform ation Technology (IT) and allied  
areas. The objective of the B.Tech.  program in Computer Science and Engineering (CSE) is to 
prepare students to undertake careers involving innovation and problem solving using 
computational techniques and technologies, or to undertake advanced studies for research 
careers , or to take up En trepreneurship . 
 
In order to give due importance to applied as well as theoretical aspects of computing, the 
curriculum for the B.Tech.  (CSE) program covers most of the foundational aspects of computing 
sciences, and also develops in students the engineering skills for problem solving using 
computing sciences.  
 
Most  engineering programs start with  general courses in Sciences, and then mi grate to 
specialized courses for the disciplines. While these courses are indeed foundational for many 
engineering disciplines, they can be treated as application domains (as is evidenced from the fact 
that most Sciences and Engineering disciplines heavily  use computing now). Hence, the B.Tech.  
(CSE) program at IIIT -Delhi starts with computing oriented courses first, and allows the 
possibility of doing Science courses later. Besides being better suited for a CSE program, it also 
enables the possibility of s tudents seeing newer applications and possibilities of using computing 
in these subjects.  
 
With this approach, the B.Tech.  (CSE) program can be divided broadly in two halves. The first 
half focuses on building the foundations, and is highly structured. The  second part is for 
developing the skills and knowledge of the students in various topics – computing and 
application domains. This part also provides limited specializations, and different students may 
follow different paths and take different set of cour ses in it. Overall objectives of the B.Tech.  
(CSE) program are to help develop the following attributes in students:  
 
1. Understanding of theoretical foundations and limits of computing  
2. Understanding of computing at different levels of abstraction including c ircuits and 
computer architecture, operating systems, algorithms, and applications.  
3. Ability to adapt established models, techniques, algorithms, data structures, etc. , for 
efficiently solving new problems  
4. Ability to design, implement, and evaluate computer  based system or application to meet 
the desired needs using modern tools and methodologies  
5. Ability to function effectively in teams to accomplish a common goal  
6. An understanding of professional and ethical responsibility.  

2 
 7. Ability to communicate effectively  with a wide range of audience  
8. Ability to self-learn and engage in life -long learning  
9. Understanding and ability to use  advanced techniques and tools in different areas of 
computing  
10. Ability to undertake small research tasks and projects  
11. Ability to take an idea and develop into a business plan for an entrepreneurial venture (if 
desired)  
12. An understanding of the impact of solutions in an economic, societal, and environment 
context.  
 
This document specifies the specific regulations for the B.Tech.  (CSE) program – the general 
regulations for the B.Tech.  program are given in a separate document. These regulations are in 
addition to the regulations of the B.Tech.  program.  
2. Program Structur e 
 
1. The Foundation program provides the basic knowledge about C omputer Science (CS)  
through a set of core courses, which are compulsory for all students. This program consists of 
four major streams: software, hardware, theory, and systems. Besides these, th ere are courses 
in Maths , communication skills , environment studies  also as part of the core program.  
 
2. The set of core courses are shown in the table below (courses mentioned in [ ] are 
electives and actual courses for these slots are as defined from semes ter to  semester.)  
 
 
For students of 2020 batch onwards  
SEMESTER 1  SEMESTER 
2 SEMESTER 3  SEMESTER  4  SEMESTER 5  
Introduction to 
Programming  
 Data 
Structures and 
Algorithms  Advanced 
Programming  Fundamentals of Database 
Management Systems   
Digital Circuits  
 Basic 
Electronics  Operating Systems   
[Practical 
Bioinformatics/ Prototyping 
Interactive 
Systems/ Theory of 
Computation ]# Computer 
Networks  
Maths I - 
(Linear Algebra)  
 Maths II -
(Probability & 
Statistics)  Discrete 
Structures /Discrete 
Mathematics  Algo rithm Design and 
Analysis   
 Introduction to 
HCI 
 
 Computer 
Organization  [Math3, Signals & 
Systems, 
Embedded Logic 
Design, ..]  [ Math 4, Graph Theory]#   
Communication 
Skills  
 
 [SSH]  [SSH]   Technical 
Communication 
+ Environmental 
Sciences  
 
 
3 
 For students of 2019 b atch  
SEMESTER 1  SEMESTER 2  SEMESTER 3  SEMESTER  4  SEMESTER 5  
Introduction to 
Programming  
 Data Structures 
and Algorithms  Advanced 
Programming  Fundamentals of 
Database 
Management Systems   
Digital Circuits  
 Basic 
Electronics  Operating 
Systems   
[Human Computer 
Interaction/TOC] # Computer Networks  
Maths I - 
(Linear Algebra)  
 Maths II -
(Probability & 
Statistics)  Discrete 
Mathematics  Algorithm Design 
and Analysis   
Proto typing 
Interactive Systems  
 
 Computer 
Organization  [Math3, Signals 
& Systems, 
Embedded Logic 
Design, ..]  [ Math 4, Graph 
Theory ]#  
Communication 
Skills  
 
 [SSH]  [SSH]  [Science/ BIO/..] Technical 
Communication + 
Environmental 
Sciences  
 
 
      For students of 2018 to 2015 batches  
SEMESTER 1  SEMESTER 2  SEMESTER 3  SEMESTER  4  SEMESTER 5  
Introduction to 
Programming  
 Data Structures 
and Algorithms  Advanced 
Programming  Fundamentals of 
Database 
Management Systems   
Digital Circuits  
 Basic 
Electronics  Computer 
Organization  Operating Systems  Computer Networks  
Maths I - 
(Linear Algebra)  
 Maths II -
(Probability & 
Statistics)  Discrete 
Mathematics  Algorithm Design 
and Analysis   
System 
Management  
 
 Introduction to 
Engineering 
Design  [Math3, Signals 
& Systems, 
Embedded Logic 
Design, ..]*  [Theory of 
Computation, Math 4, 
Optimization,..]*   
Communication 
Skills  
 
 [SSH]  [SSH]  [Science/BIO/..]*  Technical 
Communication + 
Environmental 
Sciences  
 
*For these slots, a CSE student must do (i) T OC or a Maths course of 200 level or above (e.g. 
Math III or Math IV), and (ii) must do a BIO or ECE course at 200 level or above.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
4 
 3. List of technical and non -technical courses in the  first year  
 
     For students of 2019 batch onwards  
Semester  Technical Courses  Non-Technical 
Courses  
Semester 1  Introduction to Programming  
Digital Circuits  
Maths I  
Prototyping Interactive Systems  Communication Skills  
Semester 2  Data Structures and Algorithms  
Basic Electronics  
Probability and Statistics  
Computer Organization  SSH Elective  
 
  
4. The semester mentioned for the core courses is indicative and suggested, and they can be 
done later/earlier also. However, the pre -requisite requirements must be kept in mind by a 
student, if he/she wishes to do a core course in some other semester.  
 
5. In the Engineering Science/Math course slots in second year, students can take only from 
the list of courses specified for those slots.  
 
3. The Advanced Part and Streams  
 
1. The rest of the program consists mostly of elective courses.  An elective course is one 
which is not compulsory, and a student may have choices from which to select the courses 
he/she wants to do.  
 
2. Some of the electives may be organized as streams, where a stream is a sequence of 
courses in an area providing a limited specialization in that a rea.  
 
3. Besides electives and streams for specialized areas, streams and electives from domain 
areas (e.g. health, life sciences, finance, economics, E -Governance, sciences, etc.) may also 
be offered.  
 
4. The number and nature of streams and electives will ev olve and may change with time, 
providing the ability to accommodate the evolving nature of computing and its applications 
in the program. Some of the current streams are in these areas:  
 
o Image Processing and Machine Intelligence  
o Data Analytics  
o Mobile Comp uting  
o Security and Privacy  
o Hardware  
o Theory  
5 
 o Finance  
o Environment  
o Economics  
o Sciences (Physics, Biology)  
 
Note: Streams in the UG programs will not be shown on the transcript.  However, the 
students may be guided about the courses belonging to a certain area during the 
course counseling session conducted at the beginning of the semester. Guidance on 
streams should also be put on the website for information of the students.  
 
5. There will also be a set of Social Sciences  and Humanities  (SSH) courses offered.  
 
6. List of courses, and further information about the courses is available on the website: 
https://www.iiitd.ac.in/academics/courses  
 
4. Requirements for Graduation  
 
For a B .Tech . (CSE) degree, a student must satisfy all the following requirements:  
 
1. Earn a total of 15 6 (inclusive of 2 credits each of SG/CW credits)  credits (equivalent to 
39 full courses  of 4 credits ) 
 
2. Successfully complete all the core courses.  
 
3. Do at least 12 credits of Social Science and Humanities  (SSH)  Courses.  
 
4. Do 2 credits of Community Work and Self Growth  each. These are pass/fail credits, 
which are required to be completed, and will count for fulfilling the credit requirements.  
 
5. A student may take Online Courses. No more than 8 of these credits can count towards 
satisfying the credit requirements of the degree.  
 
6. A student must complete  at least 32 credits of CSE  courses.  B.Tech. Project  /Independent 
Project /Independent Study/Undergraduate Research will  not count towards  this 
requirement. These 32 credits should come from 3xx or above level courses  and should 
be different from the core courses . AAC  may approve other relevant courses (e.g. , from 
Math, ECE, Computational Biology, etc.) to be counted as CSE courses for this purpose.  
Online courses of the respective discipl ine (i.e., online courses with CSE course code) .  
 
7. A B.Tech. Project (BTP) is optional and can be started any time after the 2nd Year. A 
student opting for BTP, may take a total of 8 to 12 credits of BTP spread over minimum 
2 semesters, with no more than 8 credits in a semester. A student not completing BTP 
credits will have to forgo the partial BTP credits earned earlier and it will not be counted 
towards the credit requirement of 156 credits.  
 
6 
 Note: A BTP has to spanned at least over 2 regular consecutive semesters (i.e., Monsoon 
and Winter) and can spanned at most 3 consecutive semesters. However, in the case of a 
gap due to semester leave, the student will be allowed to continue the BTP with t he 
consent of the advisor.  
 
A detailed document on the guidelines and processes to complete the BTP is available on 
this link.  
 
8. A student may take “Independent Project” or “Independent Study” or “Undergraduate 
Research” courses for 1, 2, or 4 credits  in a semester . No more than 8 of these credits can 
count towards satisfying the credit requiremen ts of the degree.    
9. A student can take maximum 2, 2xx level courses in 3rd and 4th year.  The 2xx level core 
courses listed in Semester 5 or later will not count towards this clause.  
 
10. #A student should do at least one elective course from each of the two slots .- [Math 
IV/Graph Theory] and [HCI/TOC]  (for 2019 batch)/  [Math IV/Graph Theory] 
[PB/PIS/TOC] (from 2020 batch onwards ) positioned in Semester 4  
 
 
5. Honors Program  
 
The B.Tech.  (CSE) program has the Honors option, requirements for which are same as 
specified in the regulations for the B.Tech.  program. Namely ; 
  
1. The student must earn an additional 12 discipline credits  from in -class courses  (i.e. must 
complete at least 168 credits)  
2. The student’s program must include a B.Tech.  Project  
3. At graduation time, the student must have a CGPA of 8.0 or more  
 
 
Change History  
 
• December 2010 release - Version 2.0:  Main changes: Graduation requirements 
enhanced to 152 (8 more); system management, critical reading, and technical 
communication were made full 4 unit courses (and the 2 unit course in 4th year on 
interview sk ills was removed), and an additional Maths course (4 unit) was added in the 
second year.  
• April 2012 release  - Version 2.1 : This is now stated as requirements for CSE. Math 1 has 
been made a core course, and TOC has been made an elective. A design course has been 
introduced as a core course in 2nd semester. The elective slots in 2nd year has been marked 
as Engineering Science/Maths and it has been clarified that, students can take courses 
only from the list of courses specified in these slots . Clarified that  2 credits of SG and 2 
credits of CW must be done. Clarified that only 4 credits of BTP/IP/IS/UR can be 
counted for meeting the 8 credit s CSE/Math per semester requirement. Clarif ied that the 
total credits in first two  years is 20 courses, and 18 courses in the last two  years . BTP 
credit s range has been changed to 8 -12 credits  from  16 credits.  
7 
  
• July 2013 Release  
Preamble modified  
Critical reading and Software Engineering removed from core  
In 2nd year, it is indicated that TCOM can be done  
Math 1 and Math 2 explained  
Intro to Engg Design added in 2ndsem as a sequel to System Management  
Added the regulation for BTP External  
Changed the 8 CSE credits per semester to 32 CSE credits in last four semesters.  No 
IP/IS/BTP credits to count towards this requirement  
 
• July,  2014 release : Only a few minor changes done  
 
• November , 2014 release : Program Objectives added  
 
• July,2015 release:  
 
(i) B.Tech. (CSE) program revised w.e.f. Academic year 2015 -16 * 
(ii) BTP External discontinued  
            (iii) BTP credits towards fulfilment of degree requirements reduced to maximum 12 from    
                   maximum 16 . 
  
• July, 2016 release:  
(i) Streams in UG program discontinued  
(ii) Some  compulsory requirements in 2nd year elective slots  
 
 
• July 2017 release  
 
*For students of 2014 and earlier batches the set of core courses are shown in the table 
below (courses mentioned in [ ] are electives and actual courses for these slots are as 
defined from semester to  semester.)  
 
 Sem 1  Sem 2  Sem 3  Sem 4  
Software 
Stream  Intro to 
Programming  Data Structures 
and Algorithms  Advanced 
Programming  Databases and 
SQL  
Hardware 
Stream  Digital circuits  Computer 
organization    
Theory 
Stream    Discrete Math  Algorithm Design 
and Analysis  
Systems 
stream  System  
Management   Operating 
Systems  Computer 
Networks  
Maths  Math 1 (Linear Math 2   
8 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
• July 2019 release  
 
(i) Counting of SG, CW credits in total credits. Applicable from 2017 batch onwards.  
(ii) Total credits requirement for graduation and credit requirement for Honors students. 
Applicable from 2017 batch onwards.  
(iii) Courses for Honors students. Applicable from 2017 batch onwards.  
(iv) Discontinuation of BTP to IP conversion. Applicable from AY2019 -20. 
(v) Technical Courses  
(vi) 2xx level courses  
 
• August 2019 relea se 
 
      (i) Program structure , Pnt 2.2  
(ii) List of technical and non -technical courses in the  first year , pnt 2(B) . For students of 
2018 -2015 batches  
 
Semester  Technical Courses  Non-Technical 
Courses  
Semester 1  Introduction to Programming  
Digital Circuits  
Maths I  
System Management  Communication Skills  
Semester 2  Data Structures and Algorithms  
Basic Electronics  
Probability and Statistics  
Introduction to Engineering Design  SSH Elective  
 
 
(iii) Requirements for Graduation, Pnt 4(10). Applicable from 2019 batch onwards.  
 
• January 2021 release  
 
(i) Updated program structure from 2020 batch onwards (Pnt 2.2)  
(ii) Creation of Optimization bucket in Semester 6.  Algebra)  (Probability and 
Statistics)  
Communic
ations/HSS  Communicatio
n Skills  [HSS -1] [HSS -2] Technical 
Communication (2 
credits)  
Other 
Courses     [Engineering 
Science/Math]  Environment 
studies (2 credits)  
 [Engineering 
Science/Math]  
9 
 (iii) Clarification regarding 32 credits requirements – counting of 3xx level courses. 
Applicable from 2019 batch. (Pnt 4.6)  
(iv) Clarification regarding counting of 2xx level courses. (Pnt 4.9)  
 
• May  2024 Release  
(i) Removed Science / Bio Slot (Semester 4) (Ref 51st Senate)  
(ii) Point No. 8, CGPA bar has been removed for doing IP/IS/UR credits. (Ref: 53rd 
Senate Senate)  
(iii) DM and DS courses will be considered as one course . (Ref: 56 th Senate Decision).  
(iv) 3.6 has been updated with (i) 3xx or higher should be different from the core courses  
which will be applicable from 2022 admitted batch and (ii) replaced the phrase “3xx 
or above in the last four -semester” with “3xx or above” which will be applicable 
from ongoing batch. (Ref: 61st Senate)  
(v) Clarification added for BTP in line with guidelines  
 
