 
 
Regulations for  Minor in Quantum Technologies  
 
Preamble:  
 
The minor program (for B.Tech. students) is designed to enable a student with foundational 
knowledge in quantum computing and quantum technologies, thus providing them with the 
opportunity to join the global workforce in several aspects of quantum computing.  
 
A B.Tech. student can earn a minor certification in Quantum Technologies by completing at 
least 20 credits. Of these, 16 credits should be from courses specified below and a t least 4 
credits from project or self -study courses as explained below. Credits that are counted towards 
the minor program cannot be counted towards the discipline credit of the graduation 
requirements of the respective programs of the students.  
 
The Mino r Program is owned and managed by the Department of Electronics and 
Communication (ECE).  
 
 Course_bucket_1: 12 credits should be earned from these core courses:  
 
 
• ECExxx Quantum mechanics  
• CSE422/CSE622 Introduction to quantum computing  
• ECE524 Quantum mater ials and devices  
• ECE545 Photonics: fundamentals and applications  
• MTHxxx Quantum information theory  
 
Course_bucket_2: 4 credits should be earned from these options:  
 
• ECExxx Quantum communication and networks  
• CSExxx  Quantum and post -quantum cryptography  
• ECE517 Introduction to Nanoelectronics  
• ECE501 Information Theory   
• MTH514 Coding theory  
• CSE526 Lattices in Computer Science  
• Advanced Solid State Devices  
• Approved online courses, along with a mandatory proctored exam component, 
specific to quantum technologies as given below. (The existing rules of OC apply)  
o Quantum Technology and Quantum Phenomena in Macroscopic 
Systems https://onlinecourses.nptel.ac .in/noc22_ph15/preview  
o Quantum Transport: 
https://archive.nptel.ac.in/noc/courses/noc22/SEM1/noc22 -ph17/  
o Advanced Quantum Mechanics with Applications: 
https://archive.nptel.ac.in/courses/115/103/115103104/  

o Any new addition to NPTEL course list on relevant topics, subject to 
the approval of program coordinator.  
Note: O ne course should not count towards two minors . 
Project/Self -study courses: 4 credits can be earned from Independent Study (IS), Independent 
Project (IP), Undergraduate Research (UR), or 8 to 12 credits can be earned from a B.Tech. 
project (BTP). Students have to pursue at least one of these options. The program coordinator 
and the BTP advisor has to certify that the project/course is on a relevant topic. Students are 
encouraged to take up such projects in collaboratio n with the quantum technology industries in 
India and abroad.  
 
Prior knowledge: This minor program requires inter -disciplinary skills and is only intended 
for students with a strong background in calculus, linear algebra and probability theory.  
 
Benchmarki ng: A Minor program in quantum information and similar fields is not yet very 
common in India, or even worldwide. Wherever they are offered, they require about 4 -6 courses 
along with a project. We have tried to retain that flavour with suitable adjustments  added 
keeping in mind our current course offering.  
 
Sequencing: This is the recommended sequence of courses.  
 
Year  Monsoon  Winter  
3rd • Quantum mechanics  
• Quantum materials & devices  
• Electives  • Introduction to quantum computing  
• Electives  
4th Elective/Self -study/project courses  Elective/Self -study/project courses  
 
 
 
 
Change History:   
First Version (AY 2022 -23) 
March 2023, release  
May 2024 release  
one course should not count towards two minors  (Ref: 51st Senate decision)  
