 
 
Regulations for B.Tech.  in Electronics and Communications 
Engineering (ECE)  
 
1. Preamble  
 
IIIT Delhi aims to encourage research and innovation in  Information Technology (IT) and  
allied areas. The objective of the B.Tech.  program in Electronics and Communications 
Engineering (ECE) is to prepare students to undertake careers involving innovation and 
problem solving using suitable techniques and hardware and software technologies, or to 
undertake advanced studies for researc h careers.  
 
In order to give due importance to apply as well as theoretical aspects of ECE, the 
curriculum for the B.Tech.  (ECE) program covers most of the foundational aspects and also 
develops in students the engineering skills for problem solving. Towar ds this, the B.Tech.  
(ECE) program at IIIT -Delhi starts with computing and Electronics courses first, and 
allows the possibility of doing science courses later. Besides being better suited for 
developing engineering capabilities, it also enables the possib ility of students seeing newer 
applications and possibilities of using computing and electronics in these subjects.  
 
The first year of the ECE program is common with CSE - this allows flexibility to students 
in moving from one program to the other. The sec ond year program is relatively fixed, 
comprising mostly of core courses for the program. 3rd year onwards the program can be 
mostly flexible comprising of electives, which may be organized as streams, including in 
Computer Science as well as domain areas.  
 
This document specifies the specific regulations for the B.Tech.  (ECE) program – the 
general regulations for the B.Tech.  program are given in a separate document. These 
regulations are in addition to the general regulations of the B.Tech.  program.  
 
2. Progr am Structure  
 
2.1 The set of core courses are shown in the table below (courses mentioned in [ ] are electives 
and actual courses for these slots are as defined from semester to semester.)  
 
For students of 2020 batch onwards  
 
SEMESTER 1  SEMESTER 2  SEMESTER 3  SEMESTER  4  SEMESTER 5  
Introduction to 
Programming  Data Structures and 
Algorithms  Circuit theory and 
Devices  Fields & Waves  [Digital Communication 
Systems – core elect]  

Digital Circuits  Basic Electronics  Embedded Logic 
Design  Integrated Electronics  [Digital Signal Processing 
– core elect]  
 Introduction to HCI Computer Organization  Signals and Systems  Principles of 
Communication Systems   
Maths I (Linear 
Algebra)  Maths  II (Probability 
and Statistics)  Maths III 
(Multivariate 
Calculus)  Maths IV (ODE/PDE)   
Communication Skills  [SSH]  [SSH/Advanced 
Programming]   Technical 
Communication + 
Environmental Sciences  
 
 
For students of 2019 batch  
SEMESTER 1  SEMESTER 2  SEMESTER 3  SEMESTER  4  SEMESTER 5  
Introduction to 
Programming  Data Structures and 
Algorithms  Circuit theory and 
Devices  Fields & Waves  [Digital Communication 
Systems – core elect]  
Digital Circuits  Basic Electronics  Embedded Logic 
Design  Integrated Electronics  [Digital Signal Processing 
– core elect]  
Prototyping Interactive 
Systems  Computer Organization  Signals and Systems  Principles of 
Communication 
Systems   
Maths  I (Linear 
Algebra)  Maths II (Probability 
and Statistics)  Maths III (Multivariate 
Calculus)  Maths IV (ODE/PDE)   
Communication 
Skills  [SSH]  [SSH/Advanced 
Programming]  [Science/BIO/..]  Technical Communication 
+ Environmental Sciences  
 
 
For students of 2018 -2015 batches  
SEMESTER 1  SEMESTER 2  SEMESTER 3  SEMESTER  4  SEMESTER 5  
Introduction to 
Programming  Data Structures and 
Algorithms  Circuit theory and 
Devices  Fields & Waves  [Digital Communication 
Systems – core elect]  
Digital Circuits  Basic Electronics  Embedded Logic 
Design  Integrated Electronics  [Digital Signal Processing 
– core elect]  
System Management  Introduction to 
Engineering Design  Signals and Systems  Principles of 
Communication 
Systems   
Maths  I (Linear 
Algebra)  Maths II (Probability 
and Statistics)  Maths III (Multivariate 
Calculus)  Maths IV (ODE/PDE)   
Communication 
Skills  [SSH]  [SSH/Advanced 
Programming]  [Science/ BIO/..]  Technical Communication 
+ Environmental Sciences  
 
2.2 First semester courses are common across all the B.Tech.  programs . All students do one 
course each in Maths, Software, Hardware, Systems/practice, and Comm. All courses, 
except SS H, are core courses.  
 
2.3 List of technical and non -technical courses of first year 
Semester  Technical Courses  Non-Technical Courses  
Semester 1  Introduction to Programming  
Digital Circuits  
Math s I 
Prototyping Interactive Systems  Communication Skills  
Semester 2  Data Structures and Algorithms  
Basic Electronics  
Probability and Statistics  
Computer Organization  SSH Elective  
 
2.4 The semester mentioned for the core courses is indicative and suggested, and they can be 
done later/earlier also. However, the pre -requisite requirements must be kept in mind by a 
student, if he/she wishes to do a core course in some other semester.  
 
2.5 Program structure in 3rd and 4th Years.  
 
2.6 Most courses in Sem ester  5-8 are electives (an elective course is one which is not 
compulsory, and a student may have choices from which to select the courses he/she wants 
to do) . Core Electives mentioned in Semester 5 are the highly recommended el ectives, 
however are not compuls ory (core) courses.  
 
2.7 Some of the electives may be organized as streams, where a stream is a sequence of 
courses in an area providing a limited specialization in that area.  Streams allow the student 
to focus on some area of ECE – as ECE is too diverse it i s not possible for a student to gain 
a decent mastery in all. Streams allow the student to focus on a chosen area to gain a level 
of depth, and gain some understanding of other areas by doing some courses from other 
streams.  
 
2.8 Besides electives and streams  for specialized areas, streams and electives from domain 
areas (e.g. health, life sciences, finance, economics, E -Governance, sciences, etc.) may also 
be offered. A student may also be able to take CSE courses.  
 
Note: Streams in the UG programs will not b e shown on the transcript. However, the 
students may be guided about the courses belonging to a certain area during the course 
counseling session conducted at the beginning of the semester. Guidance on streams may 
also be put up on the website for informat ion of the students.  
 
2.9 There will also be a set of Social Sciences and Humanities (SSH) courses offered.  
 
2.10 List of courses, and further information about the courses is available on the website: 
https ://www.iiitd.ac.in/academics/courses  
 
  
3 Requirements for Graduation  
 
For a B.Tech.  (ECE) degree, a student must satisfy all the following requirements:  
 
 
1. Earn a total of 156 (inclusive of 2 credits each of SG and CW credits) credits 
(equivalent to 39 full courses  of 4 credits).  
 
2. Successfully complete all the core courses.  
 
3. Complete at least 12 credits of Social Science and Humanities (SSH ) Courses.  
 
4. Do 2 credits of Community Work and Self Growth each. These are pass/fail credits, 
which are required to be completed , and will count for fulfilling the credit 
requirements.  
 
5. A student may take Online Courses. No more than 8 of these credits can count towards 
satisfying the credit requirements of the degree.  
 
6. A studen t must at least 32 credits (8 full courses) of ECE courses. B.Tech. Project 
/Independent Project /Independent Study/Undergraduate Research will not count 
towards  this requirement. These 32 credits should come from 3xx or above level 
courses  and should be different from the core courses . AAC  may approve some other 
relevant courses (e.g. from Math s, CSE, Computational Biology, etc.) to be counted as 
ECE courses for this purpose. Online courses of the respective discipline (i.e. online 
courses with ECE course  code .  
 
7. A B.Tech. Project (BTP) is optional and can be started any time after the 2nd Year. A 
student opting for BTP, may take a total of 8 to 12 credits of BTP spread over 
minimum 2 sem esters, with no more than 8 credits in a semester. A student not 
completing BTP credits will have to forgo the partial BTP credits earned earlier and it 
will not be counted towards the credit requirement of 156 credits.  
 
Note: A BTP has to spanned at least  over 2 regular consecutive semesters (i.e., 
Monsoon and Winter) and can spanned at most 3 consecutive semesters. However, in 
the case of a gap due to semester leave, the student will be allowed to continue the BTP 
with the consent of the advisor.  
 
A detailed document on the guidelines and processes to complete the BTP is available 
on this link .  
 
8. A student may  take “Independent Project”  or “Independent Study” or “Undergraduate 
Research” courses for 1, 2, or 4 credits.  No more than 8 of these credits can count 
towards satisfying the credit requirements of the degree.    
9. A student can take maximum 2, 2xx level courses in 3rd and 4th year.  The 2xx level 
core courses listed in Semester 5 or later will not count towards this clause.  
 
 
4 Honors Program  
 
The B.Tech.  (ECE) program has the Honors option, requirements for which are same as 
specified in the regulations for the B.Tech.  program. Namely;  
 
1. The student must earn an additional 12 discipline credits from in -class courses (i.e. 
must complete at least 16 8 credits)  
2. The student’s program must include a B.Tech.  Project  
3. At graduation time, the student must have a CGPA of 8.0 or more  
 
5 Suggested “Streams” for ECE  
 
Streams will evolve over time – based on trends as well as faculty interests. Some common 
streams that are possible are given below. Then nature of streams will evolve with time 
depending on the interests of faculty as well as relevance/importance of the areas.  
 
1. Signal and Image Processing  
2. RF and Communication  Engineering  
3. Circuits and VLSI  
4. Controls and Emb edded Systems  
 
The courses in the streams will be of two types to serve dual purpose. On one hand there 
will be courses to train students in the fundamentals of the specific streams whereas on the 
other hand there will be advanced courses to train the stu dents on the latest developments 
in those specific streams.  
 
The suggested courses for some of the streams are given below. These courses can be 
added/deleted based on their relevance after taking feedback from industry and academia.  
 
Signal and Image Pr ocessing Courses:  Digital Signal Processing, Image Analysis, 
Machine Learning, Statistical Signal Processing, Compressive Sensing, Transform  
Learning  and Applications, Multirate  Signal Processing, Computer Vision, Multimedia 
Compression, Multimedia Security  
 
RF and Communication  Engineering Courses : Digital Communication System, 
Antennas Theory and Design, RF Circuit Design, Radar systems, RF Transceiver Design, 
Wireless Networks, Wireless System Implementation, Green Information and 
Communication Technology, Optical Communication System, Mobile Communication  
Circuits and VLSI Courses : Digital VLSI Design , Analog CMOS Circuit Design , System 
on Chip Design and Test , Low Power Design , Memory Design , Mixed Signal Design , 
VLSI Design and Test Flow , RF Circuit Design , RF Transceiver Design  
 
Controls and Embedded Systems Courses:  Introduction to Robotics, Advanced 
Embedded Logic Design, Control Theory, Optimal Control Systems, Stochastic Estimation 
and Control , Computer Architecture, Multi Agent Systems  
 
 
Change History  
 
• July 2013  release : B.Tech.(ECE) regulation revised  
 
• July 2014  release : Only a few minor changes done.  
 
 
• July 2015 release:  
(i)    B.Tech. (ECE) program revised w.e.f. Academic year 2015 -16 * 
(ii)   BTP External discontinued  
(iii) BTP credits towards fulfilment of degree requirements reduced to 12.  
 
• July 2016 release:  
(i) Discontinuation of streams in UG program  
• July 2017 release  
*For students of 2014 and earlier batches the set of core courses are shown in the tables below 
(courses mentioned in [ ] are electives and actual courses for these slots are as defi ned from 
semester to semester.)  
First year courses are common for both ECE and CSE students.  Each of the two semesters, all 
students do one course each in Maths, Software, H ardware, Systems/practice, and HSS/Comm. 
All courses, except HSS, are core courses.  
 
 Sem 1  Sem 2  
Hardware  Digital circuits  Basic  Computer Organization  
Software  Intro to Programming  Data structures and Algos  
Systems/Practice  System Management  Intro to Engineering Design  
Maths  Math 1 (Linear 
Algebra)  Math 2 (Probability and 
Statistics)  
Communication Skills  / HSS  Com 1  [HSS 1]  
 
 
Core Courses for ECE in 2nd Year  
 
In 3rd and 4th semesters, the course load will be same as in CSE – 5 courses, including one HSS/. 
Communication Skills.  These core courses are given below: These courses will become pre -
requisites for advanced courses in some of the streams.   
 
 
Sem 3  Sem 4  
  Linear Cir cuits  Principles of Comm unication  Systems  
Embedded Logic Design  Integrated Electronics  
Signals & Systems  Fields and Waves  
Math 3 (Complex Variables, Vector 
Calculus  and ODEs ) Math 4 ( Numerical Methods and Optimization ) 
[HSS 2]   
Technical Communication (2 credits)  
Environment Studies (2 credits)  
 
• July 2019 release  
 
(i) Counting of SG, CW credits in total credits. Applicable from 2017 batch onwards.  
(ii) Total credits requirement for graduation and credit requirement for Honors students. 
Applicable from 2017 batch onwards.  
(iii) Courses for Honors students. Applicable from 2017 batch onwards.  
(iv) Discontinuation of BTP to IP conversion. Applicable from AY2019 -20. 
(v) Technical Courses  
(vi) 2xx level courses  
 
• August 2019 release  
 
 (i) Program structure Pnt 2.1  
 (ii) List of technical and non -technical courses in the first year. For students of 2018 - 
             2015 batches  
 
Semester  Technical Courses  Non-Technical 
Courses  
Semester 1  Introduction to Programming  
Digital Circuits  
Math s I 
System Management  Communication Skills  
Semester 2  Data Structures and Algorithms  
Basic Electronics  
Probability and Statistics  
Introduction to Engineering Design  SSH Elective  
 
 
 
• January 2021 release  
 
(i) Updated program structure from 2020 batch onwards (Pnt 2.1)  
(ii) Clarification regarding 32 credits requirements – counting of 3xx level courses. 
Applicable from 2019 batch. (Pnt 3. 6) 
(iii) Clarification regarding counting of 2xx level courses. (Pnt 3.9)  
 
• May  2024 Release  
(i) Removed Science / Bio Slot (Semester 4) (Ref 51st Senate)  
(ii) Point No. 8, CGPA bar has been removed for doing IP/IS/UR credits. (Ref: 53rd Senate 
Senate)  
(iii) 3.6 has been updated with (i) 3xx or higher should be different from the core courses 
which will be applicable from 2022 admitted batch and (ii) replace d the phrase “3xx or 
above in the last four -semester” with “3xx or above”  which will be applicable from 
ongoing batch. (Ref: 61st Senate)  
(iv) Clarification added for BTP in line with guidelines  
 
 
