1 
  
 
 
Regulations for  B.Tech . in Computer Science and Biosciences  
(CSB ) Program  
 
1. Preamble  
 
With the advent of high -throughput techniques, biological sciences are grappling with a 
paradigm shift towards data -intensive explorations and challenges for management and 
analysis of massive data. Apart from fundamental contributions to basic science, da ta-
driven analysis in biology has the potential to conquer challenges such as modeling and 
control of complex diseases, management and diagnosis of pathologies, personalized 
medicine, and drug  and vaccine design, among others. Making progress on these fron tiers 
requires insight into biological processes, algorithms, machine learning techniques, 
mathematical modeling, apart from numerical and programming skills.  
 
Thus, interdisciplinary education that imparts knowledge of foundations of biology and 
computer  science as well as training in modeling and analysis of biomedical data is the key 
to create personnel who can provide solutions to problems on the interface of computation 
and biology. Knowledge of different aspects of modern biology and computational 
sciences will facilitate addressing relevant problems in biology and medicine. Towards 
this aim, an undergraduate program that seamlessly integrates foundations of computer 
science, biology and mathematics along with training to ask data -driven questions in 
biology and medicine is an important step in this direction.  
 
Program Objectives  
 
The program aims to develop capabilities in Computer Science s as well as in Biosciences . At 
the end of the program, a student will have:  
 
1. Understan ding of foundations, capabi lities and limits of computing.  
2. Ability to design and implement efficient software solutions  particularly for biological 
applications using suitable algorithms, data structures,  and other computing 
techniques.  
3. Understanding of foundations of biological sciences and biological data.  
4. Ability to compile, manage and analyze data to address problems in biological and 
medical sciences . 
5. Ability to build and apply  mathematical  modeling techniques to biological problems . 
 
In addition, the graduate of this program will also have the following general skills that are 
common with other B.  Tech . programs:  
 
1. Ability to function effectively in teams to accomplish a common goal.  
2. An understanding of professional and ethical respo nsibility.  
3. Ability to communicate effectively with a wide range of audiences.  

2 
 4. Ability to self -learn and engage in life -long learning.  
5. Ability to undertake research tasks and projects.  
6. Ability to take an idea and develop into a business plan for an entrepre neurial venture.  
7. Understanding of the impact of solutions in an economic, societal, and environment 
context.  
 
This document specifies the specific regulations for the B.Tech.  (CSB) program – the general 
regulations for the B.Tech.  program are given in a se parate document. These regulations are 
in addition to the regulations of the B.Tech.  program.  
 
 
3.    Program Structure  
 
The B.Tech . program at IIIT -D follows a philosophy of having a small set of core -courses, 
allowing students significant flexibility in designing their curriculum and specialization.  
 
A. Majority of core courses are completed i n the first four semesters . The struc ture f or 
first few semesters is as follows:  
 
For students 2024 batch and onwards  
 
Semester 1  Semester 2  Semester 3  Semester 4  Semester 5  
Introduction to 
Programming  Data Structures and 
Algorithms  Operating system  Algorithm Design and 
Analysis    
Introduction to HCI  Computer 
Organization  Advanced 
Programming  Fundamentals of 
Database Management 
Systems    
Math I (Linear 
Algebra)  Math II (Probability 
& Statistics)  Discrete 
Mathematics/ 
Discrete Structure   [GraphTheory/ 
Introduction to 
Mathematical Logic]    
Digital Circuits  Foundations of 
Biology I  Foundations of 
Biology II  Biophysics    
Communication 
Skills  [SSH]   Introduction to 
Quantitative 
Biology  Foundations of 
Biomedical 
Informatics  Technical 
communication + 
Environment Studies  
 
 
For students of 20 20 batch and onwards  
Semester 1  Semester 2  Semester 3  Semester 4  Semester 5  
Introduction to 
Programming  Data Structures and 
Algorithms  Operating Systems   Analysis and 
Design of 
Algorithms  Elective  
 Introduction to HCI Computer Organization  Advanced 
Programming  Fundamentals of 
Database Management 
Systems  Elective  
3 
 Maths I – (Linear 
Algebra)  Maths II -(Probability & 
Statistics)  Maths  III - (Multi 
Variate Calculus)  Basic Electronics 
(offered for 1st year 
students for ECE and 
CS) Biophysics  
Digital Circuits  Foundations of 
Biology  Cell Biology & 
Biochemistry*  Practical 
Bioinformatics# Algorithm in 
Bioinformatics   
Communication 
Skills  [SSH] Genetics and 
Molecular Biology*  Introduction to 
Quantitative Biology   Technical 
Communication + 
Environmental 
Studies  
 
 
 
For students of 2019 batch  
Semester 1  Semester 2  Semester 3  Semester 4  Semester 5  
Introduction to 
Programming  Data Structures and 
Algorithms  Operating Systems  Algorithm Design (B)  Elective  
Prototyping 
Interactive Systems  Computer Organization  Advanced 
Programming  Fundamentals of 
Database Management 
Systems  Elective  
Maths I – (Linear 
Algebra)  Maths II -(Probability & 
Statistics)  Maths  III - (Multi 
Variate Calculus)  Basic Electronics 
(offered for 1st year 
students for ECE and 
CS) Biophysics  
Digital Circuits  Foundations of 
Biology  Cell Biology & 
Biochemistry*  Practical 
Bioinformatics# Algorithm in 
Bioinformatics   
Communication 
Skills  SSH Genetics and 
Molecular Biology*  Introduction to 
Quantitative Biology   Technical 
Communication + 
Environmental 
Studies  
 
 
For students of 2018 batch  
Semester 1  Semester 2  Semester 3  Semester 4  Semester 5  
Introduction to 
Programming  Data Structures and 
Algorithms  Computer 
Architecture and 
Operating Systems  Algorithm Design (B)  Elective  
Systems 
Management  Introduction to 
Engineering Design  Advanced 
Programming  Fundamentals of 
Database Management 
Systems  Elective  
4 
 Math s I – (Linear 
Algebra)  Math s II -(Probability & 
Statistics)  Math s  III - (Multi 
Variate Calculus)  Basic Electronics 
(offered for 1st year 
students for ECE and 
CS) Biophysics or 
Structural Biology  
Digital Electronics  Foundations of 
Biology   Cell Biology & 
Biochemistry * Practical 
Bioinformatics# Algorithm in 
Bioinformatics   
Communication 
Skills  SSH Genetics and 
Molecular Biology *  Introduction to 
Quantita tive Biology   Technical 
Communication + 
Environmental 
Studies  
 
* Wet lab is required for these courses   
#  Dry lab is required for this course  
 
 
B. List of Technical and Non -technical courses of first year  
 
Semester  Technical Courses  Non-Technical Courses  
Semester 1  Introduction  to Programming  
Digital Circuits  
Math I  
Prototyping Interactive Systems  Communication Skills  
Semester 2  Data Structures and Algorithms  
Foundations of Biology  
Probability and Statistics  
Computer Organization  SSH Elective  
 
C. Rest of the program consists mostly of elective courses. An elective course is one which 
is not compulsory, and a student may have choices from which to select the courses 
he/she wants to do.  
 
Computer Science Electives  
CSE courses that are regularly offered. These will likely to include courses like Computer 
Vision, Image Analysis , Data Mining, Machine Learning, Pattern Recognition , Statistical 
Computation etc.  
Biological Science Electives  
 Network Biology  
 Systems Biology  
 Biostatistics  
 Machine Learning for Biomedical applications  
 Computer Aided Drug Discovery  
 Big Data Mining in Healthcare  
 Biomedical Image Analysis  
 Introduction to Computational Neuroscience   
 
5 
 Note: This is a new program and the structure and details of the program and courses 
will evolve with time, so the list of courses and course contents will change with time.  
 
D. List of courses, and further information about the courses is available on the website:  
https://www.iiitd.ac.in/academics/courses  
 
4. Requirements for Graduation  
 
For a B.Tech.  (CSB ) degree, a student must satisfy all the following requirements:  
 
1. Earn a total of 15 6 (inclusive of 2 credits each of SG/CW credits)  credits (equivalent 
to 39 full courses  of 4 credits ).   
 
2. Successfully complete all the core courses and special electives (if specified).  
 
3. Complete at least 12 credits of Social Science and Humanities (SSH) Courses.  
 
4. Do 2 credits of Community Work and Self Growth each. These are pass/fail credits, 
which are required to be completed, and will count for fulfilling the credit 
requirements.  
 
5. A student may take Online Courses. No more than 8 of these credits can count 
towards satisfying the credit requirements of the de gree.  
 
6. A student must complete at least 32 credits of CSE/Bio courses, which should include 
at least 12 credits of CSE and 12 credits of B IO courses. B.Tech. Project /Independent 
Project /Independent Study/Undergraduate Research will not count towards this 
requirement. These 32 credits should come from 3xx or above level courses  and 
should be different from the core courses . AAC  may approve some other relevant 
courses (e.g., Maths/ECE etc.) to be counte d as CSE/B IO courses for this purpose. 
Online courses of the respective discipline (i.e.  online courses with CSE/BIO course 
code) .  
 
7. A B.Tech. Project (BTP) is optional and can be started  any time after the 2nd Year. A 
student opting for BTP, may take a total of 8 to 12 credits of BTP spread over 
minimum 2 semesters, with no more than 8 credits in a semester. A student not 
completing BTP credits will have to forgo the partial BTP credits e arned earlier and it 
will not be counted towards the credit requirement of 156 credits.  
 
Note: A BTP has to spanned at least over 2 regular consecutive semesters (i.e., 
Monsoon and Winter) and can spanned at most 3 consecutive semesters. However, in 
the ca se of a gap due to semester leave, the student will be allowed to continue the 
BTP with the consent of the advisor.  
 
A detailed document on the guidelines and processes to complete the BTP is available 
on this link . 
 
8. A student may take “Independent Project” or “Independent Study” or “Undergraduate 
Research” courses for 1, 2, or 4 credits  in a semester . No more than 8 of these credi ts 
6 
 can count towards satisfying the credit requirements of the degree. There  is no CGPA 
requirement for registering for IP/IS/UR Credits.  
 
9. A student can take maximum 2, 2xx level courses in 3rd and 4th year.  The 2xx level 
core courses listed in Semester 5 or later will not count towards this clause.  
 
 
5. Honors Program  
 
The B.Tech.  (CSB) program has the Honors option, requirements for which are same as 
specified in the regulations  for the B.Tech.  program. Namely;  
  
1. The student must earn an additional 12 discipline credits  from in -class courses  (i.e. 
must complete at least 16 8 credits).  
2. The student’s program must include a  B.Tech.  Project.  
3. At graduation time, the student must have a CGPA of 8.0 or more.  
 
 
 
 
 
Change History:  
• July 2018 Release – Version 1  
• July 2019 release  – Version 2  
 
(i) Counting of SG, CW credits in total credits. Applicable from 201 8 batch onwards.  
(ii) Total credits requirement for graduation and credit requirement for Honors 
students. Applicable from 201 8 batch onwards.  
(iii) Courses for Honors students. Applicable from 201 8 batch onwards.  
(iv) Disconti nuation of BTP to IP conversion. Applicable from AY2019 -20. 
(v) Technical Courses  
(vi) 2xx level courses  
 
 
• August 2019 release  – Version 3  
 
     (i)  Program structure Pnt 3(A ). 
     (ii) List of technical and non -technical courses in the  first year , pnt 2(B). For students of  
           2018 batch  
 
Semester  Technical Courses  Non-Technical 
Courses  
Semester 1  Introduction to Programming  
Digital Circuits  
Math I  
System Management  Communication Skills  
7 
 Semester 2  Data Structures and Algorithms  
Foundations of Biology  
Probability and Statistics  
Introduction to Engineering Design  SSH Elective  
 
• January 2021 release  – Version 4  
 
(i) Updated program structure from 2020 batch onwards (Pnt 3(A))  
(ii) Clarification regarding 32 credits requirements – counting of 3xx level courses. 
Applicable from 2019 batch. (Pnt 4.6)  
(iii)Clarification regarding counting of 2xx level courses. (Pnt 4.9)  
 
 
• May  2024 Release (Version 5) 
 
(i) Algorithm Design (B) course replaced by Analysis and Design of Algorithms. (Ref: 53rd 
Senate Decision)  
(ii) Point No. 8, CGPA bar has been removed for doing IP/IS/UR credits. (Ref: 53rd 
Senate Senate)  
(iii)3.6 has been updated with (i) 3xx or higher should be different from the core courses  
which will be applicable from 2022 admitted batch and (ii) replaced the phrase “3xx 
or above in the last four -semester” with “3xx or above” which will be applicable from 
ongoing batch. (Ref: 61st Senate)  
(iv)  Clarification added  for BTP in line with guidelines  
 
• August 2024 Release (Version 6) 
 
(i) Core course table updated from 2024 batch (Ref. 63rd Senate)  
