Regulations for B.Tech. in Electronics and VLSI Engineering (EVE) 
 
1. Preamble 
 
IIIT Delhi aims to encourage research and innovation in Information Technology (IT) and 
allied areas. The objective of the B.Tech. program in Electronics and VLSI Engineering 
(EVE) is to prepare students to undertake careers involving innovation and proble m solving 
using suitable techniques and hardware and software technologies, or to undertake 
advanced studies for research careers. 
 
In order to give due importance to applied as well as theoretical aspects of EVE, the 
curriculum for the B.Tech. (EVE) progr am covers most of the foundational aspects and 
also develops in students the engineering skills for problem solving. Towards this, the 
B.Tech. (EVE) program at IIIT -Delhi starts with computing and Electronics courses first, 
and allows the possibility of do ing science courses later. Besides being better suited for 
developing engineering capabilities, it also enables the possibility of students seeing newer 
applications and possibilities of using computing and electronics in these subjects. 
 
The first semeste r of the EVE program is common with all - this allows flexibility to 
students in moving from one program to the other. The second and third semester is 
common with the ECE program. The fourth and fifth semester of the program is relatively 
fixed, comprisin g mostly core courses for the program. From sixth semester onward the 
program can be mostly flexible, consisting of electives. 
 
This document specifies the specific regulations for the B.Tech. (EVE) program – the 
general regulations for the B.Tech. program are given in a separate document. These 
regulations are in addition to the general regulations of the B.Tech. program. 
 
2. Program Structure 
 
2.1 The set of core courses are shown in the table below (courses mentioned in [ ] are electives 
and actual courses for these slots are as defined from semester to semester.) 
 
 
SEMESTER 1 SEMESTER 2 SEMESTER 3 SEMESTER 
4 SEMESTER 5 
Introduction to 
Programming Data Structures and 
Algorithms Circuit theory and Devices Fields & 
Waves Digital VLSI Design 
Digital Circuits Basic Electronics Embedded Logic Design Integrated 
Electronics Analog CMOS Design 
Introduction to HCI Computer 
Organization Signals and Systems Physics of 
Semiconductor 
Devices VLSI Design Flow 
SEMESTER 1 SEMESTER 2 SEMESTER 3 SEMESTER 
4 SEMESTER 5 
Maths I (Linear 
Algebra) Maths II (Probability 
and Statistics) Maths III (Multivariate 
Calculus) Electronic 
System Design 
Communication 
Skills [SSH] [SSH/Advanced 
Programming] [Open Elective] Technical 
Communication + 
Environmental Sciences 
 
 
2.2 First semester courses are common across all the B.Tech. programs. All students do one 
course each in Maths, Software, Hardware, Systems/practice, and Comm. All courses, 
except SSH, are core courses. 
 
2.3 List of technical and non-technical courses of first year 
Semester Technical Courses Non-Technical Courses 
 
Semester 1 Introduction to Programming 
Digital Circuits 
Maths I (Linear Algebra) 
Introduction to HCI 
Communication Skills 
 
Semester 2 Data Structures and Algorithms 
Basic Electronics 
Maths II (Probability and Statistics) 
Computer Organization 
SSH Elective 
2.4 The semester mentioned for the core courses is indicative and suggested, and they can be 
done later/earlier also. However, the pre -requisite requirements must be kept in mind by a 
student, if he/she wishes to do a core course in some other semester. 
 
2.5 Most courses in Semester 6 -8 are electives (an elective course is one which is not 
compulsory, and a student may have choices from which to select the courses he/she wants 
to do). 
 
2.6 Besides electives and streams for specialized areas, streams and electives from domain 
areas (e.g. health, life sciences, finance, economics, E-Governance, sciences, etc.) may also 
be offered. A student may also be able to take CSE courses. 
 
Note: Specialization in the UG programs will not be shown on the transcript. However, the 
students may be guided about the courses belonging to a certain area during the course 
counseling session conducted at the beginning of the semester. Guidance on spec ialization 
may also be put up on the website for information of the students. 
2.7 There will also be a set of Social Sciences and Humanities (SSH) courses offered. 
2.8 List of courses, and further information about the courses is available on the website: 
https://www.iiitd.ac.in/academics/courses 
3 Requirements for Graduation 
 
For a B.Tech. (EVE) degree, a student must satisfy all the following requirements: 
 
 
1. Earn a total of 156 (inclusive of 2 credits each of SG and CW credits) credits 
(equivalent to 39 full courses of 4 credits). 
 
2. Successfully complete all the core courses. Specifically, the core courses for the 
BTech EVE program (i.e., Physics of Semiconduct or Devices, Digital VLSI Design, 
Analog CMOS Design, and VLSI Design Flow) must be completed. 
 
3. Complete at least 12 credits of Social Science and Humanities (SSH) Courses. 
 
4. Do 2 credits of Community Work and Self Growth each. These are pass/fail credits, 
which are required to be completed, and will count for fulfilling the credit 
requirements. 
 
5. A student may take Online Courses. No more than 8 of these credits can count towar ds 
satisfying the credit requirements of the degree. 
 
6. A student must do at least 16 credits (4 full courses) of EVE elective courses. The 
EVE elective courses are the courses which have course codes starting with EVE. 
B.Tech. Project /Independent Project/I ndependent Study/Undergraduate Research will 
not count towards this requirement. These 16 credits should come from 3xx or above 
level courses. AAC may approve some other relevant courses (e.g. from Maths, CSE, 
Computational Biology, etc.) to be counted as EVE courses for this purpose. Online 
courses of the respective discipline (i.e., online courses with EVE course code). 
 
7. B.Tech. Project (BTP) is optional and can be started any time after the 2nd Year. A 
student opting for BTP, may take a total of 8 to 12 credits of BTP spread over 
minimum 2 semesters, with no more than 8 credits in a semester. A student not 
completing BTP credits will have to forgo the partial BTP credits earned earlier and it 
will not be counted towards the credit requirement of 156 credi ts. 
 
Note: A BTP has to spanned at least over 2 regular consecutive semesters (i.e., 
Monsoon and Winter) and can spanned at most 3 consecutive semesters. However, in 
the case of a gap due to semester leave, the student will be allowed to continue the 
BTP w ith the consent of the advisor. 
 
A detailed document on the guidelines and processes to complete the BTP is available 
on this link . 
 
8. A student may take “Independent Project” or “Independent Study” or “Undergraduate 
Research” courses for 1, 2, or 4 credits. No more than 8 of these credits can count 
towards satisfying the credit requirements of the degree. 
9. A student can take maxim um 2, 2xx level courses in 3rd and 4th year. The 2xx level 
core courses listed in Semester 5 or later will not count towards this clause. 
 
 
4 Honors Program 
 
The B.Tech. (EVE) program has the Honors option, requirements for which are the same as 
specified in the regulations for the B.Tech. program. Namely; 
 
1. The student must earn an additional 12 discipline credits from in-class courses (i.e. 
must complete at least 168 credits) 
2. The student’s program must include a B.Tech. Project 
3. At graduation t ime, the student must have a CGPA of 8.0 or more 
 
5 List of EVE elective courses 
 
The following existing ECE courses will be given EVE course codes also: 
 
1. Solid State Devices: ECE318 
2. Introduction to Nanoelectronics: ECE517 
3. Photonics: Fundamentals and Applications: ECE545 
4. Quantum Materials and Devices: ECE524 
5. Integrated Circuit Fabrication: ECE522 
6. Quantum Mechanics: ECE525 
7. Memory Design and Testing: ECE611 
8. Mixed Signal Design: ECE412 
9. RF Circuit Design: ECE321 
10. Linear Systems Theory: ECE570 
11. Advanced Embedded Logic Design: ECE573 
12. Computer Architecture: ECE511 
13. Digital Signal Processing: ECE351 
14. Digital Hardware Design: 510 
15. System on Chip Design and Test: ECE516 
16. Applied Optimization methods for machine learning: ECE5aom 
17. Applied Fields & Waves ECE331/ECE53 1 
18. Operating Systems CSE23 1 
19. ADDV ECE52 7 
20. Algorithm design and analysis CSE222/CSE 223 (two codes are assigned fo r 
this course on tech tree ) 
21. Edge AI CSE66 3 
22. Foundation of Computer Security CSE345/CSE54 5 
23. Artificial Intelligence CSE64 3 
24. Machine learning ECE363/ECE563/CSE34 3 
 
In future, more courses will be given EVE course code (as they are approved) and they will 
be considered as EVE elective courses. 
 
• May 2024 Release 
(i) Point No. 8, CGPA bar has been removed for doing IP/IS/UR credits. (Ref: 53rd Senate 
Senate) 
(ii) 3.6 has been updated with (i) 3xx or higher should be different from the core courses 
which will be applicable from 2022 admitted batch and (ii) replaced the phrase “3xx or 
above in the last four -semester” with “3xx or above” which will be applicable from 
ongoing batch. (Ref: 61st Senate) 
(iii) Clarification added for BTP in line with guidelines