1 
 
 
 
 
Regulations for the Dual Degree Program in Computer Science and 
Engineering (CSE) and Electronics & Communications Engineering (ECE) 
1. Preamble 
 
Dual degree programs are commo n in India and most IITs have it . The main motive 
behind such a program is to have some of the UG students of an Institute do their 
M.Tech. in the same Institute, so the Institute can leverage the training it had provided 
and the seamless transition into the M .Tech . program to benefit its research activity, as 
well as reduce the duration for earning the M .Tech . degree. Most dual degree programs 
allow for both degrees to be earned in five years. IIIT -D’s dual degree program follows a 
similar approach as many other Institutions. 
2. Admission and Requirements 
 
2.1 Application process for dual degree will be i nvited after 7th Semester , however it is 
advised to the students to plan it after 6th semester so that they can plan the courses 
properl y to comple te it within a year after B.Tech. 
 
2.2 Application Timeline : Application for Dual Degree may be invited immediately after 
declaration of the result of 7th Semester (Monsoon semester). Scrutiny, selection of 
students, approval by Chair, PG Affairs and declaration of resul t to be completed before 
add/drop of 8th sem ester (Winter Semester) . 
 
2.3 Eligibility: Only students with CGPA of 7.0 or above at the time of applying are eligible 
for the program. The job offer will be dropped for the students who have already 
received the offer and are sele cted for dual degree. They will be eligible for the next 
placement cycle with the M.Tech. batch as per the current practice. 
 
2.4 Any extra course credits earned during the B.Tech. program beyond what is required for 
the B.Tech. degree, up to a maximum of 12 credits, may be counted towards course 
credit requirements for the M.Tech. degree. So, a student can do extra courses in 3rd and 
4th year (as Honors students do), and ge t these credits counted towards satisfying the 
M.Tech. course credit requirements, provided the courses are such that they can be 
counted for M.Tech. . 
 
2.5 Student s, who have undergone the B.Tech. (CSE) , B.Tech.( CS+X) or B.Tech .(ECE) 
program of IIIT -D, have the necessary backg round and strength in foundations for 
M.Tech.(CSE) and M.Tech .(ECE) program , respectively . Hence, only upto 12 credits of 
core course requirement of the M.Tech. program, which is designed to impart some core 
knowledge to students, is deemed to have been satisfied, and the same is waived -off for 
the dual degree students for earning their M.Tech. 
 
2 
 
2.6 Mandatory requirement to complete OOPD course can be waived for Dual Degree 
students as long as AP is taken by the student during B.Tech. 
 
2.7 Mandator y requirement to complete RM course can be waived for Dual Degree students 
as long as RMSSD is taken by the student during B.Tech. 
 
2.8 A dual degree student will be considered as a B.Tech. student till the time he/sh e 
completes the requirements for the same; thereafter he/sh e will be considered as an 
M.Tech. student. The date for each degree will be based on the date of completing the 
requirements for that degree. 
 
2.9 The dual degree student must spend at least two semes ters as an M.Tech. student. 
 
2.10 A dual degree student must do an M.Tech. thesis, which may be a continuation of the 
work done in BTP. 
 
2.11 If the specialization requirements are met, then the dual degree student can apply for 
specialization as well. Also, studen t should not repeat a course already done i n B.Tech. 
Only n ew courses need to be done to complete the dual degree requirement. 
 
3. Notes : 
 
3.1 The fee for the M.Tech. portion of the dual degree program will be half of regular 
M.Tech. fee. 
 
 
3.2 If a student does 12 credits extra in 3rd/4th years, as allowed, he/she will have to do 8 
credits mo re in the 5th year, and at least 16 credits of M.Tech. thesis, for the M.Tech. 
degree. The minim um number of credits for M.Tech. part under Dual Degree program is 
36. 
 
3.3 After declaration of 8th semester results the student should specify which courses shou ld 
count for B.Tech. and which f or the M.Te ch. degree. 
 
3.4 Students should be encouraged to take GAT E in their 4th year to benefit from the scheme. 
 
3.5 It is clarified that after admission to Dual Degree program the student is ineligible for 
placement. N o refun d of fee will be made if he / sh e does not join except if h e/she goes 
for higher studies in which case some amount is deducted (the amount to be deducted 
will be decided by the Competent Authority) . 
 
3.6 On completion of B.Tech. requirements, the B.Tech. degre e may be given on submission 
of No Dues Cer tificate. 
 
3.7 If he /she cannot complete the M.Tech. part of the Dual Degree program no fee refund 
can be made. 
 
3 
 3.8 Internship rules for dual degree students will be same as for M.Tech. students of the 
respective batches . 
 
 
Change History : 
 
July, 2014 : It is clarified that: 
(i) the dual degree program is for both CSE and ECE 
(ii) a student can opt for B.Tech. (Honors) – i.e. clause that Honors cannot be done is removed. 
 (iii) If the specialization requirements are met, the n the dual degree student can ap ply 
for sp ecialization as well. 
 
July 2015 : 
 
Points related to refund of fee and issue of B.Tech. degree on completion of degree requirements clarified vide paras 3.6 ,3.7 and 3.8. 
 
July 2016: 
 
Minor changes 
 
April 2020: 
 
(i) Pnt 2.3 – Eligibility criteria reworded 
(ii) Pnt 2.6 
 
January 20 21: 
 
(i) Pnt 2.5 – B.Tech. (CS+X) ad ded 
(ii) Pnt 2.7 
(iii) Pnt 2.11 updated 
(iv) Pnt 3.9 
 
July 2024: 
 
(i) Point 2.1 & 2.2 – application process will start in 7th semester in place of 6th (Ref. 62nd Senate) 
(ii) Point 2.3 & 3.2 – chang e in eligibility of placeme nt (Ref. 62nd Senate)