1 
 
Regulations for the B.Tech. in Computer Science and Artificial 
Intelligence (CSAI) Program 
1. Preamble 
 
Artificial Intelligence (AI) has become an integral part of technology in our daily lives, driving 
to office, searching for a restaurant, getting news updates, and recommendations on social media 
are all using AI. With increase in usage, there is a significant requirement of researchers who can 
understand AI and build AI technologies. This program will provide students an opportunity to 
learn both foundational and experimental components of AI and Machine Learning. A student 
completing this program will be able to undertake industry careers involving innovation and 
problem solving using Artificial Intelligence (AI) and Machine Learning (ML) technolog ies and 
research careers in AI, ML, and, in general, Computer Science areas. Along with courses that 
provide specialization in AI, students will also have option to explore applied domains such as 
computer vision, natural language processing, robotics, and autonomous systems as well as other 
interdisciplinary areas such as neuroscience, edge computing, and Internet of Things. 
 
Overall objectives of the B.Tech. (CSAI) program are to help develop the following attributes in 
students: 
 
1. Understanding of foundational topics in Computer Science, Artificial Intelligence, and Machine 
Learning. 
2. Understanding of theoretical foundations and limits of artificial intelligence and machine 
learning. 
3. Ability to design and implement algorithms and data structures for efficiently solving new 
problems. 
4. Ability to model and analyze a variety of problems using appropriate mathematical/computational 
and AI concepts. 
5. Ability of apply and develop AI algorithms to transform large amount of data into intell igent 
decisions and/or behavior. 
6. An understanding of the impact of AI based solutions in an economic, societal, and environment 
context. 
 
2 
 In addition, the graduates of this program should also have the following general skills that are common 
with other B.Tech programs: 
7. Ability to function effectively in teams to accomplish a common goal. 
8. An understanding of professional and ethical responsibility. 
9. Ability to communicate effectively with a wide range of audience. 
10. Ability to self learn and engage in life-long learning. 
11. Ability to undertake small research tasks and projects. 
12. Ability to take an idea and develop into a business plan for an entrepreneurial venture (if desired). 
 
This document specifies the specific regulations for the B.Tech. (CSAI) program – the general 
regulations for the B.Tech. program are given in a separat e document. These regulations are in 
addition to the regulations of the B.Tech. program. 
2. Program Structure 
 
1. The Foundation program provides the basic knowledge about C omputer Science and 
Artificial Intelligence (CSAI) through a set of core courses, which a re compulsory for all 
students. 
 
2. The set of core courses are shown in the table below (courses mentioned in [ ] are 
electives and actual courses for these slots are as defined from semester to semester.) 
 
For students of 2020 batch onwards 
SEM 1 
 SEM 2 SEM 3 SEM 4 SEM 5 Sem 6 
Introduction 
to 
Programming 
 Data Structures 
and Algorithms Advanced 
Programming [Fundamentals of 
Database 
Management 
Systems/Computer 
Organization/Ethics 
in AI]* Machine 
Learning 
Digital 
Circuits 
 Introduction of 
Intelligent 
Systems Operating 
Systems [Maths IV/Graph 
Theory/Statistical 
Inference/Introductio
n to Mathematical 
Logic/Theory of 
Computation]# [Computer 
Architecture/ 
Computer 
Networks/ 
Compilers]* Ethics in 
Artificial 
Intelligence 
Maths I - 
(Linear 
Algeb ra) Maths II -
(Probability & 
Statistics) Discrete 
Mathematics /
Discrete 
Structures Algorithm Design 
and Analysis Artificial 
Intelligence [2 AI Core Courses] 
Introduction 
to HCI 
 
 [Computer 
Organization/F
undamentals of 
Database 
Management 
Systems]* Maths III Statistical Machine 
Learning [4 AI Application Electives] 
Communicati
on Skills 
 
 [SSH] Signals & 
Systems Optimization bucket 
[Linear Optimization, 
Convex 
Optimization ] Technical 
Communication 
+ 
Environmental 
Sciences 
3 
 
For students of 2019 batch 
SEM 1 
 SEM 2 SEM 3 SEM 4 SEM 5 Sem 6 
Introduction 
to 
Programming 
 Data Structures 
and Algorithms Advanced 
Programming [Fundamentals of 
Database 
Management 
Systems/Computer 
Organization/Ethics 
in AI ]* Machine 
Learning 
Digital 
Circuits 
 Introduction of 
Intelligent 
Systems Operating 
Systems [Maths IV /Graph 
Theory/S tatistical 
Inference /Introductio
n to Mathematical 
Logic/Theory of 
Computation ]# [Computer 
Architecture/ 
Computer 
Networks/ 
Compilers ]* Ethics in 
Artificial 
Intelligence 
Maths I - 
(Linear 
Algebra) Maths II -
(Probability & 
Statistics) Discrete 
Mathematics Algorithm Design 
and Analysis Artificial 
Intelligence [2 AI Core Courses] 
Prototyping 
Interactive 
Systems 
 
 [Computer 
Organization/F
undamentals of 
Database 
Management 
Systems ]* Maths III Statistical Machine 
Learning [4 AI Application Electives] 
Communicati
on Skills 
 
 [SSH] Signals & 
Systems Optimization bucket 
[Linear Optimization, 
Convex Optmization] Technical 
Communication 
+ 
Environmental 
Sciences 
 
 
3. List of technical and non -technical courses in the first year 
 
Semester Technical Courses Non-Technical 
Courses 
Semester 1 Introduction to Programming 
Digital Circuits 
Maths I 
Prototyping Interactive Systems Communication Skills 
Semester 2 Data Structures and Algorithms 
Introduction to Intelligent Systems 
Probability and Statistics 
Computer Organization /Fundamentals 
of Database Management Systems SSH Elective 
 
 The Advanced Part of the program 
 
1. The rest of the program consists mostly of elective courses. An elective course is one 
which is not compulsory, and a student may have choices from which to select the courses 
he/she wants to do. A list of Elective Courses is available as Appendix. 
 
2. Some o f the electives may be chosen from various domains like (more can be added 
later): 
 
4 
 • Neuroscience or Cognition 
• AI in Heathcare 
• Hardware related AI, Edge Computing and AI 
• Parallel or Distributed AI for large scale applications 
• Human Centered AI 
• IoT and AI 
 
3. Besides elect ives for specialized areas, electives from domain areas (e.g. health, life 
sciences, finance, economics, E -Governance, sciences, etc.) may also be offered. 
 
4. There will also be a set of Social Sciences and Humanities (SSH) courses offered. 
 
5. List of courses, and further information ab out the courses is available on the website: 
https://www.iiitd.ac.in/academics/courses 
 
3. Requirements for Graduation 
 
For a B .Tech . (CSAI ) degree, a student must satisfy all the following requirements: 
 
1. Earn a total of 15 6 (inclusive of 2 credits each of SG/CW credits) credits (equivalent to 
39 full courses of 4 credits ). 
 
2. Successfully complete all the core courses. 
 
3. Do at least 12 credits of Social Science and Humanities (SSH) Courses including a 
mandatory SSH course, Ethics in AI . Refer Appendix I for list of courses. 
 
4. Do 2 credits of Community Work and Self Growth each. These are pass/fail credits, 
which are required to be completed, and will count for fulfilling the credit requirements. 
5. Successfully complete all core courses listed in the above table. 
 
6. Earn 8 credits of additional CS core courses (from the courses marked as * in the above 
table other than Ethics in AI course, which is a SSH course ) and 4 credits of Maths 
Elective Courses (from the courses marked as # in the above table) . Refer Appendix I for 
list of courses. 
 
7. Earn 8 credits of additional AI core courses from list of courses and 16 credits of AI 
application electives available at Appendix I . These credits should come from 3xx or 
above level courses. 
 
8. A student may take Online Courses. No more than 8 of these credits can count towards 
satisfyin g the credit requirements of the degree. 
 
9. A B.Tech. Project (BTP) is optional and can be started any time after the 2nd Year . A 
student opting for BTP, may take a total of 8 to 12 credits of BTP spread over minimum 
5 
 2 semesters , with no more than 8 credits in a semester. A student not completing BTP 
credits will have to forgo the partial BTP credits earned earlier and it will not be counted 
towards the credit requirement of 156 credits. 
 
Note: A BTP has to spanned at least over 2 regular consecutive semesters (i.e., Monsoon 
and Winter) and can spanned at most 3 consecutive semesters. However, in the case of a 
gap due to semester leave, the student will be allowed to continue the BTP with the 
consent of the advisor. 
 
A detailed document on the guideli nes and processes to complete the BTP is available on 
this link . 
 
10. A student may take “Independent Project” or “Independent Study” or “Undergraduate 
Research” courses for 1, 2, or 4 credits in a semester . No more than 8 of these credits can 
count towards satisfying the credit requirements of the degree. 
 
11. A student can take maximum 2, 2xx level courses in 3rd and 4th year. The 2xx level core 
courses listed in Semester 5 or later will not count towards this clause. 
 
 
4. Honors Program 
 
The B.Tech. (CSAI ) program has the Honors option, requirements for which are same as 
specified in the regulations for the B.Tech. program. Namely ; 
 
1. The student must earn an additional 12 discipline credits from in -class courses (i.e. must 
complete at least 168 credits) 
2. The student’s program must include a B.Tech. Project 
3. At graduation time, the student must have a CGPA of 8.0 or more 
 
 
Appendix I: Tentative list of Electives 
 
A. Additional CS Core Courses: Select 2 out of following courses (2X4 = 8 credits ) - should be done 
in first 4-semesters 
- Computer Architecture 
- Computer Organization 
- Fundamentals of Database Management Systems 
- Computer Networks 
- Compilers 
 
B. Additional AI Core Courses: Select 2 out of the following courses (2 X 4 = 8 credits ) 
6 
 - Deep Learning 
- Advanced Machine Learning 
- Reinforcement Learning 
- Data Mining 
- Big Data Analytics 
- Data Science 
- Probabilistic Graphical Models 
- Human -AI Interaction 
- Meta -Learning 
- Trustworthy AI Systems 
- Theories of Deep Learning 
- Bayesian Machine Learning 
 
C. AI Applications Courses: Select 4 out of the following courses (4 X 4 = 16 credits ) 
- Computer Vision 
- Natural Language Processing 
- Information Retrieval 
- Robotics 
- Multi -agent Systems 
- Collaborative Filtering/Recommender Systems 
- Speech Recognition and Understa nding 
- Semantic Web/Knowledge Graphs 
- Additional Applications Related Courses (Link to all available courses ) 
 
D. MTH Elective Courses: Select 1 out of the following: (1 X 4 = 4 credits ) 
- MTH 4 
- Scientific Computing 
- Graph Theory 
- Statistical Inference 
7 
 - Theory of Computation 
- Introduction to Mathematical Logic 
- Information Theory 
- Econometrics -1 
- Econometrics -2 
 
E. SSH Courses (3 X 4 = 12 credits ): (i) Ethical, Social, and Legal (ESL) Aspects in AI, and 2 other 
SSH course s with recommendation for (a) Game Theory, (b) Critical Thinking. 
 
 
 
 
Change History 
 
• August 2019 release New Version 
 
• January 2021 release (Version 1) 
 
(i) Updated program structure from 2020 batch onwards (Pnt 2. 2) 
(ii) Creation of O ptimization bucket in Semester 4. 
(iii) Clarification regarding 32 credits requirements – counting of 3xx level courses. 
Appl icable from 2019 batch. (Pnt 3.7 ) 
(iv) Clarification regarding counting of 2x x level courses. (Pnt 3 .11) 
 
 
• May 2024 release (Version 2) 
 
(i) Point No. 8, . CGPA bar has been removed f or doing IP/IS/UR credits. (Ref: 53rd Senate 
Senate ) 
(ii) Additional AI Core Courses added (Ref: 57th Senate Decision) 
(iii)Addition to the core Math courses that include optimization, etc. (Ref: 57th Senate 
Decision) 
(iv) DM and DS courses will be considered as one course . (Ref: 56th Senate Decision). 
(v) Clarification added for BTP in line with guidelines.