1 REGULATIONS FOR B.TECH. PROGRAM S 
 
For ORDINANCES details please visit at the following link: 
 
https://iiitd.ac.in/sites/default/files/docs/education/BTech -Ordinances.pdf 
 
 
 
 2 
REGULATIONS FOR B .TECH . PROGRAMS 
1 General 
(1) This document gives the general regulations applicable to all B.Tech. programs. Specific 
requirements for a particular B.Tech. program (e.g. B.Tech. in Computer Science and 
Engineering) are specified in regulations for that program. 
(2) While the Senate is the main statutory body for all academic matte rs, the Academic 
Affairs Committee ( AAC), a standing committee of Senate, shall oversee matters related 
to the undergraduate and postgraduate program s. This committee shall be appointed by 
the Senate and shall have a term of two years. It will consist of DOAA, AAC Chair, 
Chair PG Affairs, Chair UG Aff airs, 8 -10 faculty members having representation from all 
the departments. The committee may coopt, with the permission of Chairman, Senate, 
student representatives who will be full time students of the Institute, other Faculty 
members , Research Staff, and members of the Senate in AAC. 
(3) Any condition arising in the B.Tech. program and not covered in the regulations shall be 
referred to the Academic Affairs committee which may refer it to the Senate. 
(4) Dean of Academic Affairs (DOAA) is the main functionary who ensures the smooth 
functioning of the academic programs as approve d by the academic Senate, executes the 
policies and decisions of the Senate and AAC . DOAA’s office receives, processes and 
maintains all records relating to the undergraduate programs including curricula, courses 
offered, academic calendar, registration, l eave, examinations, grades and award of 
degrees and prizes; disseminates information and issues orders pertaining to all academic 
matters; processes requests from students regarding academic matters. 
2 Academic Session and Calendar 
There are two regular seme sters and one summer term in a year. Most courses are taught 
in the regular semesters. The semester timeline shall be defined in the academic calendar 
and will be broadly the following. 
 
a) Semester I (Monsoon Semester). Starts after first week of August and ends 
around the middle of December . 
 
b) Semester II (Winter Semester). Starts after first week of January and ends 
around first week of May . 
 
c) Summer Term . Starts around last week of May and ends around last week of 
July. 
 
A semester is of about four months in duration with 13 weeks of teaching, a mid -semester 
recess, a mid -semester examination, and an end -semester examination. Generally the last 
10 days in the semester are reserved for the end -semester examination, presenta tions, 
 
 3 demos , etc. The summer term is about half the duration of the regular semesters, and the 
courses taught run at a faster pace to complete in duration of the summer term. 
 
The academic calendar, published every year/semester , specifies the dates for m ajor 
academic activities like registration, examinations, mid -semester recess, etc. , will be 
prepared and published by DOAA, and tabled in the Senate. 
3 Admission 
 
Number of Seats 
The total number of seats will be as decided by the Board of Governors and will 
be announced every year in the admission prospectus. No change in the total 
number of seats will be done after the merit list for admission has been 
announced. The Board may al so decide to have a special supernumerary quota for 
foreign students. 
 
Admission Criteria 
Admission to the undergraduate program at IIIT -Delhi is based on criteria which 
use scores from entrance test(s), class XII, and other competitions. Details about 
the admission criteria and entrance test(s) whose scores are to be used, are 
announced throug h the admission prospectus each year. The minimum eligibility 
criteria for applying is that a candidate must have secured 70% or more marks in 
the aggregate and 70% or more in Mathematics in class XII from CBSE/ICSE/IB 
board or equivalent is eligible f or applying to IIIT -Delhi. Relaxation is given for 
category students, as specified in the prospectus. Additional requirements for 
minimum eligibility for specific programs are also as specified in the prospectus. 
Candidates whose program had been terminate d at any other university/institute 
on disciplinary grounds are not eligible for admission at IIIT -Delhi. 
 
Reservations 
The current reservation policy (decided by the Board of Governors) of the 
Institute largely reflects the policy of Delhi Government. Cur rently, 85% of the 
seats are reserved for Delhi candidates (i.e. those who have completed class XII 
from a school/college/institute located in Delhi), and 15% for outside Delhi 
candidates. Category -wise reservation is provided within these limits, as 
expla ined in the prospectus for each year. 
 
Offer of Admission 
(1) During counseling, based on the merit list, a candidate will be invited to join the 
institute. A candidate will be admitted if he/she 
a) presents all original documents for verification of the informat ion provided in 
the admission form 
b) pays the required fee, and 
c) completes the admission formalities. 
 
 4 (2) Those candidates unable to show the proof of fulfilling the eligibility criteria may 
be given a provisional admission subject to their presenting such a p roof by the 
following September 30th. 
 
Cancellation of Admission 
(1) The admission of a candidate to the undergraduate program may be cancelled if 
any material information provided is found to be incorrect, he/she does not pay 
the fee by the given date, or does not report on the announced day for registration. 
The Institute reserves the right to extend the date of reporting and date of 
depositing fee i f a case is found to be genuine. 
 
(2) The admission of a student may be cancelled by the Senate even at a later date if 
it is found that the student had supplied some false information or suppressed any 
relevant information while seeking admission. 
 
 
Foreign Students 
Some seats may be reserved for foreign students. These are usually 
supernumerary, and admiss ion for such seats is handled separately. The number 
of seats and the process for application and admission are described in each year’s 
prospectus. 
 
Non-degree Students 
A non -degree student is a student registered for a degree in a recognized 
university/ institute in India or abroad and who is officially sponsored by that 
Institute/university to complete part of the academic requirements at IIIT -Delhi. 
Such students may do courses or projects in IIIT -Delhi, and will be given 
transcripts for the academic w ork carried out at IIIT -Delhi. During their stay at 
IIIT-Delhi, such students will also be governed by all academic and disciplinary 
rules of IIIT -Delhi. Credits earned by a non -degree student at IIIT -Delhi cannot 
be applied towards any degree/diploma offe red by IIIT -Delhi at any time. The 
admission to non -degree status is decided on a case to case basis. The applications 
are received by the DOAA. 
 
4 Courses and Credits 
(1) Every semester the Institute offers some courses, taught by faculty appointed by it. 
(2) A cou rse may be of 4, 2, or 1 credit. A registered student who passes a course earns the 
credits assigned for that course. 
 
a) A 4-credit course. The course will have 3 hours of lectures per week, with a total 
of about 39 hours of lectures (13 weeks). In addition, one hour of interaction per 
week is expected, which may be in form of structured tutorials. There may also be 
labs in the course. 
 
 5 
b) A 2-credit course . The course will have 1.5 h ours of lectures per week for the 
whole semester, or 3 h ours of lectures per week for half the semester. The total 
lectures hours will be about 20. Intensive short -term courses of 2 credits are also 
possible, though it is expected that the duration of such a course will be no less than 
3 weeks. A 2 -credit course may or may not have tutorials and labs. 
 
c) A 1-credit course . The course is likely to be run as a short course on a very 
specialized topic. Such courses may also be run during vacations. A 1 -credit course 
will have a total of about 10 hours of lecture over a period of, generally, not less 
than 2 weeks. 
 
d) Certain courses such as Self–Growth (SG) , Community Work (CW) , may be 
taken for varying number of credits on case-to-case basis . 
(3) While taking courses in the Institute is the primary means for a student to earn credits, 
there may be other approved provisions for earning credit through projects, studying in 
other Institutions and transferring credits, etc. Such pr ovisions will be provided in these 
or other regulations. 
(4) Online Courses 
IIIT-Delhi has evolved a system for allowing students to take online courses. Students 
can take advantage of the increasing amount of such courses made available by reputed 
universit ies across the world to complement the courses offered in the institute. 
1. A B.Tech. student is allowed to regist er for online cou rses (OC) as regular courses 
(and not in the category of Independent Project ( IP)/Independent Study 
(IS)/Undergraduate Research ( UR)/B.Tech. Project (BTP) ). 
2. The limit “one course in a semester” for OC means that “no more than 4 credits of 
OC can be taken in a semester”. 
3. A student can take upto 8 credits of Online Courses in his B.Tech. degree. 
(5) TA Duty 
• In a semester, student can earn a maximum of 2 credits for TAship in a 4-credit 
course . 
• The grade for TAship can be S or X (same as an online course). 
• Credits earned for doing a TAship will be counted within the approved bucket 
of 8 credits of online courses . UG students can take upto 4 cr edits as TA duty 
under the rules as defined in the TA allocation policy. 
• For the purpose of counting overload, the load of TAship will be considered 
equivalent to that of a 4 credit course. 
 
 6 5 Registration 
(1) At the beginning of each semester, a student shall register for the courses he/she wishes 
to take in that semester. A student s hall normally be allowed to register for a course 
only if he/she has passed all the necessary pre -requisites for that course . 
(2) Registration is compulsory for all students who are not on leave of absence, and is the 
sole responsibility of the student and mus t be completed before the last date of 
registration. Failure to register may lead to termination of the student for that semester. 
5.1 Registration Procedure 
(1) Registration will generally be done just before the start of classes in a semester. Pre -
registrati on for a semester can be done toward the end of the previous semester. Students 
will be informed about these dates and other details every semester. 
(2) Registration process has two parts: academic and administrative , and both of these must 
be completed in order to complete the registration process. Academic registration includes 
specifying the courses that the student wishes to do in the semester and getting the 
necessary approvals. Students can seek advice from Advisors nominated for the purpose by 
the DOAA . Administrative part includes paying all dues to the Institute. 
 
(3) If a student does not register on ERP, (s)he will be marked “Absent Without Leave”. If 
a candidate remains “Absent Without Leave” for two semesters, his/her regist ration shall 
be terminated and a termination letter will be issued to the student with a copy to the Head 
of the Department . 
 
 
 
5.2 Late Registration 
Late registration is permitted as per academic calendar on the payment of late registration 
fee. The late fee may be waived if the delay is due to an academic activity undertaken with 
prior permission. The number of days missed due to late arrival shall be treated as leave of 
absence. A fee for late academic registration may be imposed. 
5.3 Pre-registration of Courses 
Pre-registration is necessary part of the academic registration for non -first semester 
students. In case a student fails to do pre -registration of courses, a penalty may be imposed 
if the student does not register his/her preference within the stipulated pe riod. 
5.4 Adding or Dropping of Courses 
A student can change the courses that he/she does in a semester by adding and dropping 
courses till the last date for add/drop as specified in the academic calendar. In addition, a 
student can withdraw from at most one elective course up to the last date s pecified in the 
 
 7 academic calendar, which will normally be after the mid -semester examination. During the 
summer term, a student may be permitted to drop one course by the late drop date. 
5.5 Registration of Students with Backlog Course( s) 
A student has a back log if he/she has not taken or has taken but failed in course(s) of 
previous semester(s). The registration of such a student must be approved by the DOAA 
who will advise the student. Generally, the student should register in a manner that he/she 
can clear as many backlog courses as are available. 
5.6 Cancellation of registration 
(1) A student is solely responsible to ensure that all conditions for proper registration are 
satisfied, and there are no timetable clashes. The registration may be cancelled by the 
DOAA for a course if any irregularity is found at a later stage. A student’s registration 
for the semester may be cancelled as part of disciplinary action. Leave beyond 
permissible limits may also result in cancellation of registration for a semester. 
 
5.7 Summer term registration 
Registering in the summer term is optional. A student may register for up to 6 credits of 
courses that are offered during the summer term (inclusive of SG/CW credits) . Out of th ese 
6 credits , for student s who have completed the 2nd year of the ir B.Tech. program , may be 
allowed to take up to 4 credits for IP/IS/UR/BTP . An except ion may be made for the 
students of the graduating batch , who may be allowed to take up to 8 credits. The 
registration shall be done just before the start of the term. There will not be any late 
registration in the summer term and a student shall not be allowed to add a course after 
registration. 
5.8 Academic Load 
In general, students will take courses as per the program. Normal load for the first- and 
second -year students is 16 -20 credits and for the third - and fourth -year students is 16 -22 
credits. 
 
When a student registers for more credits than the stipulated normal load, it is called the 
overload. First year students cannot take any overload. Second year students having a 
CGPA of more than 8.0 can take an overload of up to 2 additional credits over 20 credits. 
Third - and fourth -year students having a CGPA of more than 8.0 can take an overload of 
up to 2 additional credits over 22 credits. If a studen t is not having CGPA more than 8.0 
may be allowed to take an overload only in one semester in the final year, i.e., in either 7th 
or 8th semester . 
 
When the student registers for less than 16 credits in a semester , it is called the underload . 
A student may be allowed, with permission of the DOAA an underload of a maximum of 4 
credits below 16 credits . 
 
 
 8 Students under academic warning may not be permitted any overload. Such students may 
be advised by DOAA to take an underload. 
Students can avail underload below 12 credits (as low as 4 credits) only in the eighth 
semester of their B.Tech . program. Students wanting to avail internship (industrial, 
academic, research, etc.) without taking semester leave can do so under this clause 
provided they satisfy the below criteria : 
Eligibility to apply for internship at the end of Semester 6 
(1) Must have completed 126 credits. 
(2) Must have done 4 cr edits of SG an d CW credits in addition to 126 credits. 
(3) Must have completed all core courses. 
(4) Must have been left with 4 cr edits of IP/IS/UR/Online courses/BTP . Must be 
eligible to do these courses and must have necessary approval of the advisor with 
whom he will do these credits. 
 
Only eligible students as informed by Academic office to the placem ent office will be 
allowed to sit for internship interviews. 
Eligibility to go for internship at the end of Semester 7 
(1) Must have completed 148 credits. 
(2) Must have done 4 cr edits of SG and CW credits in addition to 148 credits. 
(3) Must have completed all core courses and other graduation requirements pending 
a 4 cr edits IP/IS/UR/Online course/BTP. 
(4) Must have been left with 4 cr edits of IP/IS/UR/Online courses/BTP. M ust be 
eligible to do these courses and must have necessary approval of the advisor with 
whom he will do these credits. 
Students willing to go for internship need to take necessary approval from DoAA. Such 
request needs to be placed at least two days before the last date of add/drop. Students 
approved for such internship are required to register for 4 credits of only 
IP/IS/UR/BTP/OC courses in the eighth semester. Students will not be allowed to do any 
in-class course during the internship period . 
6 Teaching and Evaluation 
6.1 Teaching 
Each course is conducted by the Instructor -in-charge with the assistance of tutors and/or 
teaching assistants. The Instructor -in-charge is responsible for conducting the lectures, 
tutorials, and labs, holding the tests and examinations, evaluating the perf ormance of the 
students, awarding grades at the end of the semester/summer term, and transmitting the 
grades to the DOAA’s office within the prescribed time limit. 
6.2 Continuous Evaluation System 
(1) The Institute follows a system of continuous evaluation, in which, during a course, 
various instruments like tests, exams, assignments, projects , etc., are given by the 
 
 9 instructor to assess the learning of students and assign grades. All evaluations are the 
responsibility of the instructor in -charge of the course. The two main exams – the mid -
semester exam and the end -semester exam – shall normally be scheduled as per the 
academic calendar while the schedule of the rest will be decided by the Instructor. For 1 
or 2 credit courses, the Instructor will decide the evaluation criteria and the schedule of 
tests and exams. 
(2) Make -up Exam : If a student, for valid reasons such as illness, etc., fails to appear in the 
end-semester examination in one or more course(s), he/she may make a request to the 
instructor and the academic office for a make -up examination within two days of the date 
of the scheduled examination. The request for make -up examination will be approved by 
the DOAA. Such a request must, however, be supported by proper documentary evidence 
for justifying the request. For medical reasons, only two medical applications including 
mid-semester and end -semester would be accepted for make -up examinations during the 
entire du ration of the B.Tech . degree completion. Further, for the grant of medical leave , 
students are required to upload the medical certificate within five working days from the 
date of the missed examination .The Institute reserves the right to get the medical 
certificate verified from the Institute doctor. The makeup exam should be conducted, and 
the final grade should be provided within s ix weeks after the moderation date . 
 
6.3 Grading Scheme 
(1) One of the letter grades given in the following table shall be awarded to a student 
reflecting his/her overall performance in a course. Each letter grade carries certain points 
as given in the table, and these points are used in the computation of the SGPA/CGPA as 
explained later. 
Letter Grade Grade 
Points Remarks 
A+ (Outstanding) 10 
Letter grades A+ to F and I are given only in the 
regular courses. 
This grading scheme is effectively A to F . A+ grade is 
only to recognize excellent performers in a course , 
though it has the same grade points as an A grade . A (Very Good) 10 
A(-) 9 
B (Good) 8 
B(-) 7 
C (Satisfactory) 6 
C(-) 5 
D (Marginal) 4 
F (Fail) 2 F Grade is not counted in the calculation of CGPA, 
however, it is counted in the calculation of SGPA. 
I (Incomplete) Nil Incomplete (I grade) must be converted to one of the 
letter grades (A to F) within six week s after 
moderation date. 
W(Withdrawn) Nil “W” grade shall be printed in the transcript of the 
students who do ‘Late Drop’ 
S (Satisfactory) Nil S and X are grades f or only certain kinds of courses 
like Audit course. They are not incorporated in 
SGPA/CGPA calculation. X (Unsatisfactory) Nil 
 
 10 (2) In the academic courses, the final grades awarded are A to F (A+ is a grade with same 
points as A, and is there to honor excellence). 
(3) An I (Incomplete) grade may be awarded in cases when all the requirements for a course 
are not met by the student at the time of submission of grades and it essentially reflects as 
an “incomplete” status in the Evaluation Resource Planning (ERP) system . For all 
courses including project -based courses, this grade must be converted to a regular grade 
within six weeks after the moderation date . For courses other than project / independent 
study, incomplete grade “I” is meant primarily for medical reasons. All unconverted “I” 
grades are automatically converted to F grade after the grade conversion deadline, which 
is within six weeks after the moderation date . 
(4) In certain courses, such as Online Courses (OC, Self -Growth (SG and Community Work 
(CW courses, only S or X grade is awarded. 
(5) The F and X grades are “fail” grades and the student shall be required to repeat the 
course. If the course is a compulsory course, the student shall repeat the same course in 
another semester/summer when the course is offered. In the case of an elective/optional 
course, the student can replace the course by another elective course. 
(6) For at most one compulsory (core) course, after getting an F twice in the course, a student 
may be allowed to replace it by an elective course of the respective discipline with the 
prior approval from DOAA. 
(7) An F and X grade obtained in any course shall be reflected in the grade sheet. However , 
when the course is replaced or repeated, the new grade will be used for computation of 
the CGPA . The pass grade for the respective course will count towards the SGPA of the 
semester in which the course is passed and not in the se mester where ‘F’ grade was 
awarded. ‘F’ grade shall not be counted in the calculation of CGPA, although it is 
counted in the calculation of SGPA. 
6.4 Change of Grade Already Awarded 
As mentioned in Ordinances, a letter grade , once awarded , shall not be changed unless 
the request is made by the Instructor -in-Charge of the course and is approved by the 
Chairman, Senate. Any such request for change of grade must, however, be made within 
six weeks after the moderation date with all relevant records and justification. 
6.5 (i) Grade Improvement 
For some important core courses, refresher modules may be offered during vacations for 
students’ benefit. Based on their performance in the refresher module, only students with 
F or D grade may be allowed at most half the letter grade improvement (i.e. 
improvement from F to D or D to C -), although any student can attend . Decision 
regarding whether these modules are to be offered during vacation and whether they may 
be used for grade enhancement will be taken every year. As with a grade change, this 
grade improvement will be approved and authorized by Chairman, Senate. 
 
 
 11 (ii) UG students to repeat (Improvement) of a particular course 
 
Repeat of a course completed with pass grade may be allowed, but only the best Grade in 
that course will be counted for CGPA computation. Also , all attempts in that course will 
be recorded in the respective semester s’ transcripts and the repeat course will not be 
permitted for late drop after mid -semester examination. For repeating a course, a student 
has to simply register on ERP during the cour se registration period. 
6.6 Performance Indicators 
(1) The semester performance is indicated by a Semester Grade Point Average (SGPA) 
which is a weighted sum of all the points earned in the courses done in a semester. The 
SGPA is given for each semester and is computed using the following formula. 
 
SGPA = ( u1.w1 + u2.w2 + … + un.wn) / (u1 + u2 + … + un) 
 
where ui is the number of credits for the course i and wi is the points earned through the 
letter grade in that course, and n is the number of courses taken in the semester. While 
doing the computation of SGPA, the course/thesis credits with grades S and X are 
ignored. 
(2) The overall performance is indicated by a C umulative Grade Point Average (CGPA) 
which is computed in the same manner as the computation of SGPA but for all the 
courses done in the program. 
 
‘F’ grade shall not be counted in the calculation of CGPA, however, it is counted in the 
calculation of SGP A. 
(3) The grades in courses will be announced over ERP at the end of every semester. A grade 
report for the semester may be issued to a student after the semester upon request . The 
grade report may be withheld if the student has not paid the fees or other due s, has a 
disciplinary case pending against him/her, has not completed other formalities, or for any 
other pertinent reason. 
6.7 Transfer of Credits & Grades 
Students may be permitted to do academic work and courses in places of repute outside 
IIIT-Delhi and ma y be allowed to spend up to 2 semesters at another University . The 
maximum credit transfer allowed is 40 credits over the entire B.Tech. program (with a 
maximum of 20 credits in a semester) . 
Credits : Based on their performance/quantum of work done and the contents of the 
course/work, some credit s obtained from similar courses/projects may be transferred and 
considered towards graduation requirements . This transfer of credits will be approved on 
a case -by-case basis by the DOAA and will be reported to the Senate. 
 
 
 12 Grades : In general, the grades corresponding to the transferred credits will not be counted 
towards the SGPA/ CGPA calculation; however, if there is an MoU with the University 
and the MoU permits, then the grades will be included in the SGPA/CGPA calculation. 
 
6.8 B.Tech. students are allowed to do “extra credits" beyond 156 credits 
B.Tech. students are allowed to do “extra credits" beyond 156 credits required for 
completion of B.Tech. requirement. For N extra credits done, the student will be allowed 
worst grades in N credits, with a maximum limit of at most 8 credits, to be not coun ted 
towards CGPA computation. The impact of this decision will be reviewed after two 
batches have graduated with this option . Following method will be used for calculating 
the CGPA: 
 
Method : The below method will automatically decide which extra credits will not be 
counted in CGPA: 
 
• For CGPA computation at the end of 6th semester, baseline credits will be 116 (equal to 
29 full courses including OC but excluding SG & CW ). If a student has done N credits 
more than 116, then for CGPA computation the follow ing will be done: 
 
- The worst grades in courses totaling M credits will be "removed", where 
M= min {8, N}. 
 
- CGPA will be computed based on the remaining credits. It is to be noted 
that since OC’s are with S/X Grades, although they will be included in 
baseline 116 credits, they will not be counted in CGPA. For example, if a 
student has done 120 credits including OC of 4 credits, CGPA will be 
computed fr om best grades corresponding to 112 credits. 
 
• For CGPA computation at the end of 7th semes ter, baseline credits will be 136 
(including OC but excluding SG & CW) . 
 
• CGPA computation for Honors students at the end of 8th semester will be done similar to 
a non-Honors student , i.e., s/he will be allowed to not -count worst grades of courses up 
to 8 credits. For example, if a student has done 164 credits (excluding SG/CW credits) 
including OC of 4 credits, CGPA will be computed from best grades corresponding to 
152 credits. 
 
General Rules : 
• SGPA computation will remain the same for each semester. 
 
• CGPA computation will remain the same for first 5 semesters, even if a student has done 
"extra credits." 
 
6.9 A B.Tech. student , who has already completed his/her graduation requirement (including 
registration for a minimum of 8 semesters on campus) , will be allowed to register for at 
most two extra courses to improve his/her CGPA. Registration after completion of 15 6 
 
 13 credits , required for graduation , will be allowed in only one extra se mester . Further, 
regist ration of extra credits will be permitted provided he/she pays fees for that extra 
semester. Moreover , such students will not be considered for any award /medal. 
 
7 Continuing in the Program 
 
For continuing in the undergraduate program , the student has to show satisfactory academic 
performance as may be defined by the Senate from time to time. If the academic 
performance falls short, a student may be asked to repeat the first year, placed under 
warning, or his/her p rogram may be terminated. 
 
7.1 Rules for the first year (excluding the summer term scheduled after the f irst year) 
 
(i) If a student fails in any 5 or more courses after completing 1st year, i.e., 1st and 2nd 
regular semesters (excluding summer), provided he/she did not take semester leave in 
any of the two semesters, then he/she will have to repeat the first year. 
 
(ii) For the students who are repeating the fir st year, the termination clause (7.3 clause of 
UG regulation) will be applicable. 
 
(iii) A student repeating the first year may be allowed transfer of credits only for the 
communication (COM101) and SSH courses that he/she had passed in his/her 
previous attempt s. 
7.2 Academic Warning/Probation 
 
A student shall be placed under academic warning/probation “if he/she gets an 
SGPA /CGPA of 4.5 or less at the end of a semester ”, however this will not lead to 
termination of the student . 
 
The following will apply to a student who is placed on a warning (academic as well as 
warning due to disciplinary reasons): 
 
(1) The student will not be allowed to hold any elected or nominated post for any 
institute body including th e hostel management, students’ activities, and student 
council. 
 
(2) The student will not be allowed to participate in any event outside the Institute as 
member of the Institute team. 
 
(3) No academic overload shall be permitted to such students. 
 
(4) The students may be required by the DOAA to take an underload. 
 
 
 14 (5) The student will be required to sign an undertaking to agree and follow all stipulated 
conditions of warning. All such undertakings shall be countersigned by the 
parent/guardian of the student. 
 
7.3 Rules for promotion to next semester for 1st year ( Only Repeater s), 2nd, 3rd and 4th 
year students. 
 
If a student gets academic warning because of low SGPA (of <4.0) in two consecutive 
semesters and/or gets two or more F grades each in two consecutive semesters, his/her 
program will be terminated. 
7.4 Attendance and Leave of Absence 
(1) A student is expected to attend all classes. For any absence of more than two days, the 
student should apply for and take a leave of absence. Penalty for students’ whose 
attendance falls below a threshold will be as decided by Senate from time to time, and 
communicated to students. 
(2) A student may be allowed to take semester leave, with permission before the last date of 
add/drop , for any valid reason, as determined by AAC , including but not limited to ill 
health, internships, entrepreneurship, family requirements, etc. No semester leave will be 
granted after the last date of add/drop other than fo r the critical reasons such as ill health 
(In such cases , no fee refund is admissible if the student has registered for the semester 
which is converted to the semester leave later.) A student shall not be permitted more 
than four semester leaves in the ent ire program. Any circumstance leading to more than 
four semester leave/drop may result in the automatic termination of the program. This 
implies that a student has to necessarily be registered and physically be present on 
campus for 8 semesters during his /her degree program except during the last semester 
when a student can go for internship, provided he satisfies the eligibility criteria to go for 
internship . 
(3) If a student is absent from the Institute for more than 20 days in a semester due to 
medical or an y other reason, this may be converted to a semester leave for that semester 
by DOAA. However, if a student represents IIIT -Delhi in some event, with prior 
permission of Dean of Students Affairs, absence due to this participation will not be 
counted. 
 
7.5 Appe als 
A student, whose program has been terminated, may appeal against the decision. All such 
appeals shall be made to the Senate within two weeks, and the decision of the Academic 
Senate shall be final. Other academics related appeals may be made to AAC . 
 
 
 15 7.6 Branc h Transfer 
Transfer of B.Tech. students from one program to the other is possible only after the 
grades of the first semester are out. This is the only time branch change will occur. A 
student must make an explicit request to be considered for program transfer within a week 
from the date of announcement of results of the first semester . In his/her request, the 
student can mention more than one program in the order of preference. Rules for program 
transfer are: 
 
1. Only the students who satisfy eligibility for a particular branch at the time of admission 
are eligible for transfer to that branch. 
 
2. Students admitted through AICTE need to produce NOC from AICTE if applying for 
transfer to another program. 
 
3. Students must have passed all credits specified for the first semester of the B.Tech. 
program. 
 
4. To be eligible for transfer to Computer Sci ence and Engineering (CSE), Computer Science 
and Applied Mathematics (CSAM) or Computer Science and Design (CSD) program or 
Computer Science and Social Sciences (CSSS) program or Computer Science and 
Biosciences (CSB) program or Computer Science and Artifi cial Intelligence (CSAI) 
program , a student must have received a B or better grade in Introduction to Programming 
(IP) and Math ematics -I. 
 
5. To be eligible for transfer to Electronics and Communication Engineering (ECE) or 
Electronics and VLSI Engineering (E VE) program, a student must have received a B or 
better grade in both Digital Circuits and Mathematics -I. 
 
Students eligible for program transfer will be ordered in a priority list based on CGPA and 
will be granted transfer in order as long as the strength of each program does not violate the 
following limits. 
 
6. The base strength of a program for a batch will be the number of students who were 
admitted and who are still enrolled in the program as on Dec 15 (after Sem 1) after 
completion of one semester, not counting those who were repeating the first year. (E.g. 
Suppose 110 students were admitted in a batch and there were 8 repeaters. If 6 of the 
admitted students dropped out before Dec 15, then the base strength will be 110 -6=104) . 
The final strength of any program shall not reduce by more than 10% of its base str ength. 
Also, the final strength of any program shall not increase by more than 10% of its base 
strength. 
• Repeaters who are repeating first year are also allowed branch transfer under the 
above -mentioned rules. 
• In case of a tie in CGPA of students, below ti e breaking rules will be followed for 
deciding transfer from one branch to another 
 
 
 16 Tie Breaking Rule I - For transfer to CSE, CSAI, CSAM, CSD, CSSS and CSB branches, 
higher grade in the order of I ntroduction to Programming , Math s-I, Introduction to HCI , 
Digital Circuits , Comm unication Skills 
 
Tie Breaking Rule II -Higher JEE Rank 
 
7.7 Migration to Dual Degree Program 
 
A B.Tech . student can opt to migrate to dual degree program of the institute immediately 
after the declaration of Sem ester 6 Results . A student once selected for Dual Degree may 
opt out from migration before the add/drop date of his/her 7th semester in the B.Tech. 
program provided he/she has not availed the Placement Service. Eligibility criteria and 
regulations for the dual degree program are given separately. 
8 Graduation Requirements and Award of Degree 
8.1 Minimum and Maximum Duration and Credits 
The minimum duration for completing the B.Tech. program is 8 semesters (excluding the 
semesters in which the st udent took semester leave or the repeated semester/year) . The 
minimum number of credits for a B .Tech . program is 15 6 (including 2 credits each of SG 
and C W). The maximum duration within which the requirements must be completed is six 
years (12 semesters) (including the semester in which student took semester leave or the 
repeated semester/year ). 
8.2 Graduation Requirements 
A student enrolled in a B.Tech. program is eligible for graduation if he/she: 
 
a) Fulfills all the academic requirements of the B.Tech. program in which he/she is 
enrolled, as given in the regulations for that program. 
b) Has completed a minimum of eight semesters in the program (excluding the 
semesters in which the student took semester leave or the semester/year he/she 
repeated ). 
c) Paid all dues to the Institute and hostels. 
d) Has no disciplinary proceedings pending against him/her. 
A student who has completed all the graduation requirements may be recommended for 
award of the degree. 
8.3 Graduating with H onors 
A student enrolled in a B .Tech . program may also graduate with Honors, provided the 
student completes all the additional requirements for Honors, as specified by the 
regulations for the program in which he/she is enrolled. These additional requiremen ts 
normally should include: 
 
 
 17 a) The student earns at least 12 extra discipline credits from in -class courses . 
b) The student’s program includes a B .Tech . project . 
c) The student has a CGPA of 8.0 or more at graduation. 
 
8.4 Graduating with a Minor 
A student enrolled in a B.Tech. program may also take a minor in some other area. 
Requirements for a minor in an area will be as stated in regulations for that minor. A 
student can graduate with a minor if he/she satisfies the requirements for his/her prog ram 
as well as requirements for the minor. Requirement for each approved minor will be 
specified separately. 
 
8.5 Award of Degrees 
(1) The Senate recommends a student, who completes all graduation requirements, to the 
Board of Governors (BOG) for the award of deg ree in the convocation. 
 
Upon a satisfactory report from the Dean, Academic Affairs, the Academic Senate may 
recommend the award of the B.Tech . degree to the student. While pending the actual 
award of the degree in a regular convocation of the Institute, t he Dean of Academic 
Affairs may authorize the Registrar to issue a provisional certificate to a student who 
completes the requirements for graduation. 
(2) The date on the degree shall be as follows: 
June 21 for the students who finish their requirements during the winter semester (e.g. 8th 
semester of B .Tech .) 
 
September 21 for those who finish the requirements during the summer term 
 
January 21 for those who finish the requirement during the Monsoon semes ter 
 
(3) As mentioned in the Ordinances , under extremely exceptional circumstances, where gross 
violation of the graduation requirements or use of dishonest means is detected at a later 
stage, the Senate may recommend to the Board of Governors to withdraw an already 
awarded degree. 
 
8.6 Convocation 
 
In general, the convocation will be held in the second half of October . 
 
A student who has completed all graduation requirements after the latest Institute 
convocation will receive the degree in the upcoming convocation. 
 
 18 
Results of students who complete the degree requirements in January may be verified and 
put up to DOAA who is authorized to approve for the award of provisional degree . The 
Degree to such students will be a warded in next Convocation and the scroll of such 
students may be signed by the Chairman, BoG. 
8.7 Prizes and Medals 
 
The academic senate of the institute will set up awards, prizes, medals etc. to be given to 
deserving students during the ir B.Tech . degree including awards distributed at the time of 
Convocation. All approved student awards and prizes are listed along with their selection 
criteria in the “Awards Regulations” 
 
Under exceptional circumstances, where gross violation of the conditions of the 
awards/recognition or academic misconduct is detected at a later stage, the Senate may 
recommend to the Board of Governors to withdraw the award and recognition. 
 
9 Disciplinary Action 
 
IIIT-Delhi maintains global academic standards in its own education system. Therefore, it 
does not tolerate any form of indiscipline/ academic dishonesty. Action will be taken against 
students found engaging in acts of indiscipline/ academic dishonesty by the Disciplinary 
Action Committee (DAC), constituted by th e Director. The disciplinary action may result in 
semester/year/two year drop or even expulsion from the Institute. Separate rules and 
regulations have been formulated to handle the cases of violations. 
10 Power to Modify 
Notwithstanding all that has been sta ted above, the Senate has the right to modify any of the 
above regulations from time to time. 
 
Change History 
 
Version 2 of the UG Manual, applicable from 2010. Main changes: Organized as Ordinances 
and Regulations; Minimum credit requirement for graduatio n increased to 152. Repeat rules 
for first year changed assuming 10 courses in first year. 
 
Version 3 (July, 2013) : Main Changes made: 
 
(i) Enabler to Ordinances 
(ii) UGC as a body defined and included 
(iii) Admission – clarified about the “number of seats”, admission cr iteria, about foreign 
students 
(iv) Added “Pre Registration” 
(v) Underload defined, along with rule for how a student can go on underload 
(vi) Grading scheme clarified – made similar to PG 
 
 19 (vii) Rule for Grade Improvement added 
(viii) Rule for Branch Transfer added 
(ix) Rule for Migration to Dual degree added 
(x) “Graduating with Minor” added 
(xi) Dates for degrees specified in “Award of Degrees” 
(xii) A small note on “Disciplinary Action” added 
(xiii) Small changes elsewhere: Penalties for late registration, etc 
(xiv) Also some reorganization for improved c larity and organization 
 
Version 4 (July, 2014 ): Main Changes made are: 
 
(i) Procedure to award degree to students who complete requirements in December 
(ii) Registration of Online courses 
(iii) CGPA calculation 
(iv) Reduction of grade due to shortage of attendance 
(v) Revision of criteria for branch transfer 
(vi) Revision of structure of minor 
 
Version 5 (July, 2015 ): Main Changes made are 
 
(i) Changes in Attendance rules 
(ii) Change in branch transfer rule 
 
Version 6 (July, 2016 ): Main Changes made are 
 
(i) Discontinuation of streams in UG program 
(ii) Registration of online course (OC) as a regular course 
(iii) Minor changes in grading table 
(iv) Some clarification in the rules for first year 
(v) Allowed to do ‘extra credits’ beyond 152 credits 
(vi) Allowed to repeat a course comple ted with a pass grade 
 
Version 7 (January, 2017 ): Main Changes made are 
 
(i) Change in Semester leave 
(ii) Changes in Branch transfer rules 
 
Version 8 (July, 2017 ): Main Changes made are 
 
(i) Change in S tructure of B.Tech.(CSAM) 
 
Version 9 (January 2018 ): Main Changes made are 
 
(i) Change in Branch Transfer Rule 
(ii) Version January 2019 
(iii) Transfer credits 
(iv) Change in Branch Transfer rules 
 
 20 (v) Degree requirement revised to 156 credits including SG/CW credits 
(vi) Provision for two extra courses beyond graduation requirement to improve CGPA 
 
 
 
 
Version 10 (July , 2019) 
(i) All operational guidelines are added to the regulations , like 
1) Normal course load and overload. 
2) Summer course drop. 
3) Max credits of online courses allowed in degree 
4) Max credits allowed in Summer (applicable from 2017 batch onwards) 
5) CGPA computation for Honors students 
6) Rules for first year 
7) Minimum and Maximum duration of the program 
(ii) Time limit for conversion of I grade to final grade 
(iii) Less credits in one of the semester s. Applicable from 2019 batch onwards. 
(iv) Change in rules for replacement of failed core course (applicable from 2017 batch 
onwards). 
(v) Transfer of credits 
(vi) Total credits required for graduation(applicable from 2017 batch onwards) 
(vii) Total credits required for Honors Degree(applicable from 2017 batch onwards) 
(viii) Courses for completing Honors Degree(applicable from 2017 batch onwards) 
(ix) Semester Leave 
(x) Branch Transfer 
(xi) Also some reorganization for improved clarity and organization 
 
 
Version 1 1 (August , 2019) 
 
 (i) Rules for promotion to next semester in 2nd, 3rd and 4th year. Applicable fro m 2019 
 batch onwards. 
 (ii) Grade improvement in summer courses. Applicable from 2019 batch. 
 
Version 12 (January, 21) 
 
(i) Replace ment of UGC, PGC with AAC. 
(ii) Semester start dates . 
(iii) TA duty. 
(iv) Internship rules. 
(v) Degree dates. 
 
Version 13 ( May , 2024) 
 
(i) Clause 3 Admission Eligibility updated to 70% (Ref . 57th Senate) 
(ii) Clause 5.8 overload criteria added for final year (Ref . 57th Senate) 
(iii) Clause 6.7 CGPA calculation criteria added (Ref. 56th Senate) 
 
 21 (iv) Termination, Academic warning and Promotion clause (7) is updated. (Ref. 52nd and 54th 
Senate) 
(v) Clause 6.2 & 6.4 time line for make -up exam and grade change updated (Ref. 61st Senate) 
(vi) Strike off rule for absent without leave updated (Ref. 61st Senate)