Regulations for Minor in Entrepreneurship 
 
A B. Tech . student can earn a minor certification in entrepreneurship by completing a total of 
24 credits from entrepreneurship courses including a BTP and or IP/IS plus a compulsory 
apprenticeship. 
There are 2 options in the minor program 
Option 1 Option 2 
24 cred its of course work 16 credits coursework 
 8 credit BTP registered under ENT track 
Compulsory apprenticeship (pre -approved) Compulsory apprenticeship (pre -approved) 
 
The minor program is designed to provide students with basic training in entrepreneurship 
and to nudge them towards entrepreneurial ventures and incubation. 
Courses for a Minor in Entrepreneurship: 
• Entrepreneurial Khichadi, (name being changed to Foundat ions of Entrepreneurship 
ENT 412 renamed Ent 3xx) 
• New Venture Planning (ENT 415 renamed to ENT3xx) 
• Entrepreneurial Communication (ENT 411) 
• Creativity Innovation and Inventive Problem Solving (Ent 416/ENT 516) 
• Social Entrepreneurship (ENT 3xx) 
• Foundations of Marketing (ENT xxx) 
• Foundations of Finance (ECO 331/ENTxxx) 
• Effective Supply Chain for e -commerce (MGT 310) 
• Entrepreneurial Finance (ENT 413) 
• Valuation and Portfolio Management (ECO 332/ENTxxx) 
• Micro -economics (ECO 301), 
• Healthcare Innovation and Entrepreneurship Essentials (ENT 421/BIO 571 
• Relevance of Intellectual Property for Startups (ENT 414) 
• Design for Artificial Intelligence driven Products (DES 529) 
• The Business of Artificial Intelligence (DES 530) 
Note: One course should not count towards two minors . 
➢ Other courses will be added to this basket on the recommendation of the faculty -in-charge 
(Entrepreneurship). The request to add a new course will be forwarded to AAC. The AAC 
will be empowered to add a new course. 
BTP : A student can earn a maximum of 8 credits for a BTP. The BTP must be registered 
under the Entrepreneurship track only. 
Apprenticeship : This is expected to be an immersive experience for students during the 
Summer term (minimum 8 weeks), either working at a startup or towards incubating a startup. 
The eight -week requirement can also be met by working for a cumulative period of eight weeks 
during summer + winter break or over 2 summer breaks at the same startup. In case the startup 
is wound up for any reaso n whatsoever the student in such a case can do the remainder part of 
apprenticeship in a new startup. However, in case the startup refuses a student to continue after 
a break then the period already spent in case it is less than 4 weeks will not be counted towards 
the fulfillment of the 8-week requirement. 
This should NOT be considered as an internship at any company or organization. Students can 
enroll for this project only after seeking due approval from the faculty -in-charge of 
Entrepreneurship. Students can register for an Apprenticeship during the summer term. 
Apprenticeship is compulsory for an ENT minor. 
External Visits & Interactions : There are scheduled visits to startups and accelerators which 
students are expected to participate in. There are ment ors and practitioners who visit the 
campus during scheduled hours for interactions with students in this minor program. 
Benchmarking: Entrepreneurship minor programs at North American and Indian universities 
typically require 16 -20 course credits, with des irable “extra -curricular” entrepreneurial activity 
for two semesters. Thus, the proposed 24-credit program that includes courses and 
entrepreneurship activities (BTP/Apprenticeship) is standard. 
Sequencing: 
Most of the courses can be taken by the student s during /after their 2nd year. BTP can be done 
during the 3rd/ 4th year. Apprenticeship is recommended during the summer term. 
Notes: 
The regulations for the Minor in Entrepreneurship are applicable for students who 
commenced their B.Tech. program in the year 2018 or later. 
 
 
Change History: 
April, 2020 release 
June, 2023 release 
 
May 2024 release 
one course should not count towards two minors (Ref: 51st Senate decision) 
DES529, and DES 530 added minor course (Ref: 62nd Senate)