1 
 
 
 
Regulations for B.Tech. Computer Science and Applied 
Mathematics (CSAM) Program 
 
1. Preamble 
 
The increasing use of sophisticated mathematical tools and techniques in tandem with 
computational tools in several areas such as computational finance, biology, e­commerce, 
weather forecasting, and data science motivates the need for a program that will produce 
graduates with computational skills as well as the ability to use sophisticated mathematical 
concepts and tools in order to tackle these problems. 
The Computer Science and Applied Mathematics program aims to develop such graduates. 
The program is similar to the Mathe matics and Computing programs operating in many 
leading Institutions. The program has a small set of core courses in both Computer Science 
and Mathematics, and many electives which can be taken from both the disciplines. This 
enables the students to build a program most suitable for them. It is possible for a student of 
this program to complete the requirements necessary to appear for the JRF/NET exam in 
Mathematical Sciences (including Statistics) jointly conducted by UGC and CSIR, or the 
GATE exam in Math ematics/Computer Science. 
 
This document specifies the specific regulations for the B.Tech. (CSAM) program – the general 
regulations for the B.Tech. program are given in a separate document. 
 
Program Objectives : At the end of this program, a student should have: 
1. Understanding of foundational topics in Mathematics. 
2. Understanding of theoretical foundations and limits of computing and different levels of 
abstraction including architecture and operating systems, algorithms, and applications. 
3. Ability to design and implement algorithms and data structures for efficiently solving 
new problems. 
4. Ability to use and apply mathematical and statistical techniques and tools to solve 
problems. 
5. Ability to abstract and rigorously model and analyze a variety of problems 
using appropriate mathematica l or computational concepts. 
 
2 
 In addition, the graduate of this program should also have the following general skills that are 
common with other B.Tech. programs: 
6. Ability to function effectively in teams to accomplish a common goal. 
7. An understanding of professional and ethical responsibility. 
8. Ability to communicate effectively with a wide range of audience. 
9. Ability to self-learn and engage in life -long learning. 
10. Ability to undertake small research tasks and projects. 
11. Ability to take an i dea and develop into a business plan for an entrepreneurial venture (if 
desired). 
12. An understanding of the impact of solutions in an economic, societal, and environment 
context. 
 
This document specifies the specific regulations for B.Tech. (CSAM) program -the general 
regulations for the B.Tech. Program are given in a separate document. 
 
2. Program Structure 
 
1. The B.Tech. program at IIIT­D follows the philosophy of having a small set of core courses 
and many electives allowing students significant flexibility in designing their curriculum 
and specialization. The overall program structure is given in the table below. The first 
semester courses are common with other B.Tech. programs, -this allows change of discipline 
after 1st Semester. Semester 2 -4 is mostly cor e courses. In the 3rd year, there are some core 
courses and rest are electives. In the final year, all courses are electives (except special 
electives, other electives are not mentioned in the table.) In the program below, the 
placement of courses in semes ter is only indicative and not a part of the requirements. 
 
For students of 2020 batch onwards 
SEMESTER 1 SEMESTER 2 SEMESTER 3 SEMESTER 4 SEMESTER 5 SEMESTER 6 
Introduction to 
Programing 
 Data Structures 
and Algorithms Real Analysis I Math IV (ODE/ 
PDE) Special Elective -2 Optimization 
Bucket [ 
Linear 
Optimization /C
onvex 
Optimization] 
Digital Circuits 
 Basic 
Electronics Operating Systems Abstract Algebra I Stochastic 
Processes and 
Applications Statistical 
Inference 
Maths I (Linear 
Algebra) 
 Maths II 
(Probability and 
Statistics) Discrete 
Structures /Discrete 
Structures Algorithm Design 
and Analysis 
Introduction to 
HCI 
 Computer 
Organization Special Elective -1 Theory of 
Computation 
Communication 
Skills 
 
 [SSH] [SSH] Technical 
Communication + 
Environmental 
Science 
3 
 
 
For students of 2019 batch 
SEMESTER 1 SEMESTER 2 SEMESTER 3 SEMESTER 4 SEMESTER 5 SEMESTER 6 
Introduction to 
Programing 
 Data Structures 
and Algorithms Real Analysis I Math IV (ODE/ 
PDE) Special Elective -3 Optimization 
Bucket [ 
Linear 
Optimization / 
Convex 
Optimization] 
Digital Circuits 
 Basic 
Electronics Operating Systems Abstract Algebra I Stochastic 
Processes and 
Applications Statistical 
Inference 
Maths I (Linear 
Algebra ) 
 Maths II 
(Probability and 
Statistics) Discrete Structures Algorithm Design 
and Analysis 
Prototyping 
Interactive 
Systems 
 Computer 
Organization Special Elective -1 Theory of 
Computation 
Communication 
Skills 
 
 [SSH] [SSH] Special Elective -2 Technical 
Communication + 
Environmental 
Science 
 
 
For students of 2018 and previous batches 
SEMESTER 1 SEMESTER 2 SEMESTER 3 SEMESTER 4 SEMESTER 5 SEMESTER 6 
Introduction to 
Programing 
 Data Structures 
and Algorithms Real Analysis I Math IV (ODE/ 
PDE ) Special Elective -3 Optimization 
Bucket[ 
Linear 
Optimization /C
onvex 
Optimization] 
Digital Circuits 
 Basic 
Electronics Computer 
Architecture and 
Operating Systems Abstract Algebra I Stochastic 
Process es and 
Applications Statistical 
Inference 
Math s I (Linear 
Algebra) 
 Math s II 
(Probability and 
Statistics) Discrete Structures Algorithm Design 
and Analysis 
Systems 
Management 
 
 Introduction to 
Engineering 
Design Special Elective -1 Theory of 
Computation 
Communication 
Skills 
 
 [SSH] [SSH] Special Elective -2 Technical 
Communication + 
Environment al 
Science 
 
 
 
 
 
4 
 2. List of technical and non -technical courses of first year 
 
Semester Technical Courses Non-Technical 
Courses 
Semester 1 Introduction to Programming 
Digital Circuits 
Math I 
Prototyping Interactive Systems Communication Skills 
Semester 2 Data Structures and Algorithms 
Basic Electronics 
Probability and Statistics 
Computer Organization SSH Elective 
 
Structure of Special Electives: 
The course structure allows a student sufficient flexibility in the choice of elective courses 
and thus structures the program to their interest. However, in choosing electives, the 
following rules must be followed. 
• Special Elective 1: In this a student c an select from a set of defined courses depending 
on his/her preference. It can be one of the following(this set may be changed later) 
○ Number Theory 
○ Advanced Programming 
○ Physics 
○ Signals and Systems 
 
 
• Special Elective 2: This elective in Semester V is a choice between 
○ Real Analysis II 
○ Scientific Computing 
It is strongly advised that a student do both courses - one in this slot and the other as a regular 
elective . 
List of courses, and further information about the courses is available on the website: 
https://www.iiitd.ac.in/academics/courses 
 
3. Requirements for Graduation 
 
For a B.Tech.(CSAM) degree, a student must satisfy all the following requirements: 
 
1. Earn a total of 156 (inclusive of 2 credits each of SG/CW credits) credits (equivalent to 
39 full courses of 4 credits ). 
 
2. Successfully complete all the core c ourses and special electives. 
5 
 
3. Complete at least 12 credits of Social Science and Humanities (SSH) Courses. 
 
4. Do 2 credits of Community Work and Self Growth each. These are pass/fail credits, 
which are required to be completed, and will count for fulfilling the credit requirement s. 
 
5. A student may take Online Courses. No more than 8 of these credits can count towards 
satisfying the credit requirements of the degree. 
 
6. A student must complete at least 32 credits of CSE/Maths courses, which should include 
at least 12 credits of CSE and 12 credits of Maths courses. BTP/Independent 
project/Independent study/Undergraduate Research will not count towards this 
requirement. These 32 credits should come from 3xx or above level course s and should 
be different from the core courses . AAC may approve other relevant courses (e.g., ECE, 
Computational Biology, etc.) to be counted as CSE/Maths courses for this purpose. 
Online courses of the respective discipline (i.e. online courses with CSE or MTH course 
code) . 
 
7. A B.Tech. Project (BTP) is optional and can be started any time a fter the 2nd Year. A 
student opting for BTP, may take a total of 8 to 12 credits of BTP spread over minimum 
2 semesters, with no more than 8 credits in a semester. A student not completing BTP 
credits will have to forgo the partial BTP credits earned earli er and it will not be counted 
towards the credit requirement of 156 credits. 
 
Note: A BTP has to spanned at least over 2 regular consecutive semesters (i.e., Monsoon 
and Winter) and can spanned at most 3 consecutive semesters. However, in the case of a 
gap due to semester leave, the student will be allowed to continue the BTP with the 
consent of the advisor. 
 
A detailed document on the guidelines and processes to complete the BTP is available on 
this link. 
 
8. A student may take “Independent Project” or “Independent Study” or “Undergraduate 
Research” courses for 1, 2, or 4 credits in a semester. No more than 8 of these credits can 
count towards satisfying the credit requirements of the degree. 
 
9. A student can take maximum 2, 2xx level courses in 3rd and 4th year. The 2xx level core 
courses listed in Semester 5 or later will not count towards this clause. 
4. Honors Program 
 
The B.Tech. (CSAM) program has the Honors option, requirements for which are same as 
specified in the regulations for the B.Tech. program. Namely; 
 
1. The student must earn an additional 12 discipline credits from in -class courses (i.e. must 
complete at least 168 credits). 
6 
 2. The student’s program must include a B.Tech. Project. 
3. At graduation time, the student must have a CGPA of 8.0 or more. 
 
 
 
Change History 
 
• July 2016 release – Version 1 
• April 2017 release – Minor changes 
• July 2017 release – Minor changes 
 
• July 2019 release (Version 2) 
 
(i) Counting of SG, CW credits in total credits . Applicable from 2017 batch onwards. 
(ii) Total credits requirement for graduation and credit requirement for Honors students. 
Applicable from 2017 batch onwards. 
(iii) Courses for Honors students. Applicable from 2017 batch onwards. 
(iv) Discontinuation of BTP to IP conversion. Applicable from AY2019 -20. 
(v) Technical Courses 
(vi) 2xx level courses 
 
• August 2019 release (Version 3) 
 
 (i) Program Structure (Pnt 2.1 ). 
(ii) List of technical and non -technical courses in the first year , pnt 2(B). For students of 
 2018 -2016 batches 
 
Semester Technical Courses Non-Technical 
Courses 
Semester 1 Introduction to Programming 
Digital Circuits 
Math I 
System Management Communication Skills 
Semester 2 Data Structures and Algorithms 
Basic Electronics 
Probability and Statistics 
Introduction to Engineering Design SSH Elective 
 
• January 2021 release (Version 4) 
 
(i) Updated program structure from 2020 batch onwards (Pnt 2.1) 
(ii) Creation of Optimization bucket in Semester 6. 
(iii) Clarification regarding 32 credits requirements – coun ting of 3xx level courses. 
Applicable from 2019 batch. (Pnt 3.6) 
(iv) Clarification regarding counting of 2xx level courses. (Pnt 3.9) 
 
7 
 • May 2024 release (Version 5) 
(i) Removed Science / Bio Slot (Semester 4) (Ref 51 st Senate) 
(ii) Point No. 8, CGPA bar has been removed f or doing IP/IS/UR credits. (Ref: 53 rd 
Senate Senate) 
(iii) DM and DS courses will be considered as one course . (Ref: 56 th Senate Decision). 
(iv) 3.6 has been updated with (i) 3xx or higher should be different from the core courses 
which will be applicable from 2022 admitted batch and (ii) replaced the phrase “3xx 
or above in the last four -semester ” with “3xx or above ” which will be applicable from 
ongoing batch. (Ref: 61st Senate) 
(v) Clarification added for BTP in line with guidelines 
 
 
 
 
Appendix: Streams 
 
In order to allow students to make informed choices about elective courses, a set of streams is envisaged 
­ which is a sequence of at least three courses. Streams are merely suggestive, and there is no 
compulsion on the part of the student to follow a sequence. The streams and courses listed below are 
some possibilities. They may change based on the availability of faculty and student interest. 
 
Stream* 
Courses 
 
Pure Mathematics 
Analysis II, Functional Analysis, Abstract 
Algebra II, Graph Theory 
 
Algebra and Computation 
Abstract Algebra II, Coding Theory, Algebra and 
Computation, Information Theory 
 
Algorithms and Complexity 
Modern Algorithm Design, Randomized Algorithms, 
Approximation algorithms, Complexity Theory, 
Quantum Computing, Information Theory, Fourier 
analysis and applications. 
 
Optimization 
Linear Optimization, Convex Optimization, Combinatorial 
Optimization, Game Theory, Algorithmic Game Theory, 
Supply Chains, Reliability and Performance Analysis 
 
Statistics and Data Science 
Statistical Computations, Machine Learning, Pattern 
Recognition, Random Networks, Big Data Analytics, 
Statistical Computing, Data Mining, Estimation Theory, 
Regression, Sampling, Information Theory 
 
Biology 
Molecular Biology and Biochemistry, Algorithms in 
Computational Biology, Systems Biology 
8 
 
Economics 
Micro Economics, Applied 
Econometric Analysis, Game Theory 
 
Applied Mathematics Mechanics, Physics, Fluid Mechanics and 
Computational Fluid Dynamics 
 
*Note: Streams in the UG programs has now been discontinued. It will not be shown on the 
transcript. However, the students may be guided about the courses belonging to a certain area 
during the course counseling session conducted at the beginning of the semester. Guidance on 
streams should also be put on the website for information of the students.