Regulations for Minor in Economics 
 
Minor Program: 
 
A B.Tech . student can earn a minor certification in economics by completing a total of 20 credits from 
economics courses. Of these, 16 credits must be earned by completing regular courses while the remaining 
4 credits may be earned by completing additional coursework or by completing the independent study (IS), 
undergraduate research (UR), or independent project (IP). The minor program is designed to impart basic 
training in microeconomics, game theory, and econometrics. Students interested in specific areas of 
interest for which a formal course is not offered may opt for independent with indiv idual faculty. 
 
Courses: 
In order to earn a Minor in Economics, a student must complete the core courses and complete the 
remaining credits by choosing the electives offered from Economics, Management or Finance. 
 
Core Courses for a Minor in Economics: Microeconomics, Game Theory and Econometrics I. 
 
Benchmarking : Economics -minor programs at North American and Indian universities typically require 
six courses in economics, including Probability and Statistics , which all B.Tech . students take in 1st 
year. Thus, the proposed 20 -credit program is standard. 
 
Sequencing: Recommended sequence (in bold). 
 
Year Fall / Monsoon Spring / Winter 
2 Microeconomics 
3 Game Theory , Econometrics I, 
MAN elective ECO core/electives or MAN electives 
4 ECO core/electives, or MAN 
electives, or IP/UR/IS ECO core/electives, or MAN electives, or 
IP/UR/IS 
Notes: 
1. The regulations for Minor in Economics are applicable for students who commenced their BTech 
program in the year 2016 or later years. 
2. A course on ‘Microeconomics’ in this latest version of the regulations document is equivalent to 
the ‘Introduction to Economic Analysis’ course from the previous versions. 
3. A course on ‘Econometrics I’ in this latest version of the regulations document is equivalent to the 
‘Applied Econometric Analysis’ course from the previous versions. 
4. Students registered in the BTech CSSS program are debarred from earning a Minor in Economics. 
5. One course should not count towards two minors . 
 
Change History: 
July, 2014 release (Version 1) 
July, 2018 release (Version 2) 
May 2024 release (Version 3) 
one course should not count towards two minors (Ref: 51st Senate decision)